1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 3594
Sponsored by Representative CATE; Representatives BOICE, OWENS
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: This Act makes it so that a student who is not a resident of this  state but goes to a
college in this state is a resident of this state  to buy certain licenses, tags or permits. (Flesch
Readability Score: 61.8).
Allows students enrolled full-time in an Oregon institution of higher education to  be treated as
residents for the purpose of purchasing licenses, tags and  permits issued by the State Fish and
Wildlife Commission.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to residency requirements under the wildlife laws; amending ORS 497.006.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 497.006 is amended to read:
497.006. (1) As used in this section:
(a) “Dependent children” includes any children of  an active member of the Armed Forces of the
United States who:
(A) Are under 18 years of age and not married, otherwise emancipated or self-supporting; or
(B) Are under 23 years of age,  unmarried, enrolled in a full-time course of study in an institution
of higher learning and dependent on the resident member of the uniformed  services for over one-half
of their support.
(b) “Institution of higher education” means a public university listed in ORS 352.002, the
Oregon Health and Science University,  a private post-secondary institution that meets the
criteria set forth in ORS 348.597 (2)(a)  and a community college operated under ORS chapter
341.
[(b)] (c)  “Resident member of the uniformed services” means  a member of the uniformed services
who:
(A) Resides in this state while assigned to duty at any  base, station, shore establishment or
other facility in this state;
(B) Resides in this state while serving as a member  of the crew of a ship that has an Oregon
port or shore establishment as its home port or permanent station; or
(C) Resides in another state or a foreign country and  establishes Oregon residency by filing
Oregon state income taxes no later than 12 months before leaving active duty.
(d) “Resident student” means a student who is able  to provide to the State Fish and
Wildlife Commission evidence satisfactory to the commission that the student resides in this
state for the purpose of full-time enrollment in an institution of higher education.
[(c)] (e)  “Uniformed services” means:
(A) The Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps and Coast Guard of the United States;
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 3876
HB 3594
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
(B) The reserves of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps  and Coast Guard of the United
States;
(C) The Oregon National Guard and the National Guard of any other state or territory;
(D) The commissioned corps of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration; and
(E) The  Public Health Service of the United States Department of Health and Human Services
while detailed by proper authority for duty with the Army or Navy of the United States.
(2) The following persons are resident persons for the purpose of  purchasing licenses, tags and
permits issued by the State Fish and Wildlife Commission:
(a) A resident member of the uniformed  services and the member’s spouse and dependent chil-
dren.
(b) A member of the uniformed services who is not a resident member of the uniformed  services,
except for the purpose of purchasing controlled hunt tags issued by the commission.
(c) A  noncitizen who furnishes to the commission evidence satisfactory to the commission that
the noncitizen is attending a school in this state pursuant to a foreign student exchange program.
(d) A resident student.
[2]