1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2024 Regular Session
Senate Bill 1581
Sponsored by Senators TAYLOR, SMITH DB, Representative NERON;  Senators CAMPOS, DEMBROW,
FREDERICK, GORSEK, JAMA, LIEBER, MANNING JR, MEEK, PATTERSON, WAGNER,  WOODS, Repre-
sentatives BOICE, GAMBA,  GRAYBER, HELM, HIEB, LIVELY, MARSH, NATHANSON, NELSON, NOSSE,
OWENS (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act makes an electric company report each year on the steps  taken or being taken
to be part of an energy market. (Flesch Readability Score: 62.1).
Requires an investor-owned utility  that sells more than two million megawatt hours of electric-
ity in a calendar year to report to the Legislative  Assembly the activities, if any, that the
investor-owned utility has taken or is taking toward participating in a regional energy market.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to the reporting of the status of a regional energy market.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) As used in this section, “investor-owned utility”  means a public utility,
as defined in ORS 757.005, that provides electric power and is regulated by the Public Utility
Commission under ORS chapter 757.
(2) An investor-owned utility that sells more than two  million megawatt hours of elec-
tricity in a calendar year shall submit a report, as described in subsection (3) of this section,
in the manner provided by ORS 192.245, to the Legislative Assembly no later  than January
15 of the following year.
(3) The report required under subsection (2) of this section must inform  the Legislative
Assembly of  any activities, including any plans or preparations, that the investor-owned
utility has taken or is taking toward participating in a regional energy market.
SECTION 2.
Section 1 of this 2024 Act applies to calendar years beginning on  or after
January 1, 2024.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 257