1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 614
Sponsored by Senator BONHAM (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act lets a person offering some  dangerous sports make a patron sign a release of
claims. (Flesch Readability Score: 70.1).
Allows an operator offering or providing facilities for an inherently dangerous  sporting activity
to require  a patron to provide an anticipatory release from certain claims for liability, including
claims arising out of the negligence of the operator and claims for unreasonable conditions  created
by the operator. Provides that the release is not unconscionable.
Declares an emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to inherently dangerous sporting activities; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) As used in this section:
(a) “Inherently dangerous  sporting activity” includes but is not limited to alpine skiing
and nordic skiing.
(b) “Operator” means a person who:
(A) Offers patrons the  opportunity to participate in an inherently dangerous sporting
activity; or
(B) Operates a facility in which a patron can participate in  an inherently dangerous
sporting activity.
(2) Except as provided in subsection (3) of this section, an operator  may require partic-
ipants in an inherently dangerous sporting activity to release the operator  from claims for
liability, including but not limited to claims  arising out of the negligence of the operator and
claims for unreasonable conditions created  by the operator that are not inherent to the ac-
tivity, before participating in the inherently dangerous sporting activity. A  release described
in this subsection is not unconscionable.
(3) An operator may not require a patron to release claims for intentional acts or for
gross negligence.
SECTION 2.
Section 1 of this 2025 Act applies  to releases executed before, on and after
the effective date of this 2025 Act.
SECTION 3. This 2025 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist,  and this 2025 Act takes effect
on its passage.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2962