1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2024 Regular Session
House Bill 4019
Introduced and  printed pursuant to House Rule 12.00. Presession filed (at the request of House Interim Committee
on Rules for Secretary of State LaVonne Griffin-Valade)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act sets the date, time and processes for the  meeting of electors of the President
and Vice President of the United States. (Flesch Readability Score: 60.7).
Provides for the date and time of the convening of electors of the  President and Vice President
of the United States. Requires the Secretary of State to preside over  the convening of electors and
to act on behalf of the electors for any duties placed on the  electors under federal or state law.
Requires the Governor and the Secretary of State to  issue a certificate of ascertainment of ap-
pointment of electors in accordance with federal law. Establishes the time, date and process for
filling any vacancy in the office of elector.
Takes effect on the 91st day following adjournment sine die.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to presidential electors; amending ORS 248.370; and prescribing an effective date.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 248.370 is amended to read:
248.370. (1) The electors of President and Vice President  shall convene at the State Capitol on
the [ Monday] first Tuesday  after the  second Wednesday in December following their election  at a
time to be established by the Secretary of State by rule .
(2) Not later than six days prior to the convening  of electors under subsection (1) of this
section, the Governor and the Secretary of State shall issue a certificate of  ascertainment
of appointment of electors as required by 3 U.S.C. 5.  The certificate of ascertainment shall
contain a security feature or features for the purpose of verifying the authenticity  of the
certificate. The Secretary of State shall  determine by rule the form of the security feature
or features under this subsection.
(3) If there is any  vacancy in the office of an elector caused by death, refusal to act, neglect
to attend or otherwise, the electors present [ immediately] shall fill [ it] the vacancy  by plurality of
voice votes  at the time and place of the convening of electors under subsection (1) of  this
section. The Governor and the Secretary of State shall issue an  amended certificate of
ascertainment containing the name of any elector who  fills a vacancy under this
subsection.
(4) Prior to the voice vote to fill  a vacancy under subsection (3) of this section, a candi-
date for filling the vacancy shall sign the pledge required under ORS 248.355.
(5) When all the  electors have appeared [ or the ] and any vacancies have been filled, the electors
shall take and subscribe  to an oath of office administered by the Secretary of State. Fol-
lowing the taking of the oath of office under this subsection, the electors shall  perform the
duties required of them by the Constitution and laws of the United States.
(6) The Secretary of State shall  preside over the convening of electors under this section
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 46
HB 4019
1
2
3
4
5
and shall perform any duty as an administrator on behalf of the electors in  accordance with
the requirements placed on electors under federal law and the laws of this state.
SECTION 2.
This 2024 Act takes effect on the 91st day after the date on  which the 2024
regular session of the Eighty-second Legislative Assembly adjourns sine die.
[2]