1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
80th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2019 Regular Session
House Bill 3016
Sponsored by Representative SPRENGER, Senator GIROD
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Appropriates moneys to State Department of  Fish and Wildlife for activities related to summer
steelhead hatchery production for Santiam River.
Declares emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to fish hatcheries; and declaring an emergency.
Whereas the United States Army Corps  of Engineers is not meeting its hatchery mitigation ob-
ligations  associated  with its dam and flood control projects in the Willamette River Basin, including
historical production of 749,800 pounds of hatchery fish annually; and
Whereas hatchery production helps mitigate  the loss of naturally produced salmon and
steelhead, which support economically viable fisheries throughout the basin; and
Whereas the State of Oregon should continue encouraging the United States Army Corps  of
Engineers to honor hatchery mitigation obligations but also must act to  ensure that hatchery pro-
grams are not lost; now, therefore,
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there  is appropri-
ated to the State Department of Fish and Wildlife, for the biennium  beginning July 1, 2019,
out of the General Fund, the amount of $_______, which may be expended for activities  re-
lated to summer steelhead hatchery production for the Santiam River.
SECTION 2. This 2019 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the  public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is  declared to exist, and this 2019 Act takes effect
on its passage.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 3620