1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 577
Sponsored by Senator FREDERICK (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Makes a power provider recoup the costs to store the waste made from  making electric
power. (Flesch Readability Score: 63.6).
Requires an electric utility to recover costs for storing the  waste produced by an energy facility
in generating electricity. Requires a person  who develops an energy facility to disclose the costs
of storing the waste produced by the energy facility in generating electricity.
Takes effect on the 91st day following adjournment sine die.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to energy generation; and prescribing an effective date.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
Section 2 of this 2025 Act is added to and made a part of ORS chapter 757.
SECTION 2. (1) As used in  this section, “electric utility” means a public utility, a people’s
utility district organized under ORS chapter 261, a municipal utility operating under ORS
chapter 225 or a cooperative organized under  ORS chapter 62 that provides or delivers elec-
tricity service.
(2) The Public Utility Commission, for an  electric utility that is a public utility, or the
governing body, for an  electric utility that is a people’s utility district, municipal utility or
cooperative, shall require the recovery of costs in  the rates of the electric utility for storing
the waste produced by an energy facility in generating electricity that is  sold by the electric
utility.
(3) Prior to developing the energy facility, a person who seeks  to develop an energy fa-
cility to generate electricity that  is to be sold by an electric utility shall disclose to the
electric utility and the public the costs of storing the waste  that will be produced by the
energy facility in generating electricity.
SECTION 3.
This 2025 Act takes effect on the 91st day after the date on which the 2025
regular session of the Eighty-third Legislative Assembly adjourns sine die.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1663