1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2988
Sponsored by Representatives HELM, OWENS (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The  Act tells an agency to do certain things related to aquifers. The Act tells the agency
to make a report related to aquifers. (Flesch Readability Score: 60.7).
Instructs the Water Resources  Department to take certain actions related to aquifer recharge
and aquifer storage and recovery.
Instructs the department to report  to interim committees of the Legislative Assembly on topics
related to aquifer recharge and aquifer storage and recovery on or before October 1, 2026.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to aquifers.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) In consultation with the Department of  Environmental Quality, the
Oregon Health  Authority, other state agencies and interested parties, the Water Resources
Department shall identify and reduce barriers to,  and develop technical assistance resources
to support, expanded beneficial aquifer recharge and aquifer storage and recovery in Oregon.
(2) To carry out the purpose described in subsection (1)  of this section, the department
shall:
(a) Identify and describe the types of projects related to aquifer recharge and aquifer
storage and recovery that can support water quality, water supply or  use and habitat or
ecosystem needs in this state.
(b) Identify regulatory and other impediments to expanding aquifer recharge and aquifer
storage and recovery.
(c) Identify any  environmentally protective approaches that other states with robust
aquifer recharge and aquifer storage and recovery programs have  successfully employed that
could be established in Oregon.
(d) Identify any regulatory changes that are needed in order to carry out the purposes
described in subsection (1) of this section, including  any changes to internal guidance, rules
or laws.
(e) Develop a proposed schedule for  enacting any regulatory changes identified pursuant
to paragraph (d) of this subsection and enact the changes, to  the extent the changes are
under the jurisdiction of the department.
(f) Develop guidance related to technical assistance and other resources  that can support
permitting and the development of  aquifer recharge and aquifer storage and recovery pro-
grams.
SECTION 2. (1) On or before  October 1, 2026, the Water Resources Department shall
submit a report, in the manner provided by ORS 192.245, to the interim committees of the
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2436
HB 2988
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
Legislative Assembly related  to water on the promotion of aquifer recharge and aquifer
storage and recovery in Oregon.
(2) The report must identify the following, at minimum:
(a) Recommended changes that state agencies can make to internal policies, guidance
and processes.
(b) Recommended changes achieved by amending existing rules or adopting new rules.
(c) Recommended changes achieved by amending existing law or enacting new laws.
(d) Programmatic needs that  would remove impediments to, and support access to and
acceleration of, aquifer recharge and aquifer storage and recovery.
(e) Available and  needed technical assistance resources and incentives to support the
evaluation and pursuit of aquifer recharge and aquifer storage and recovery.
(f) Resources needed by state  agencies to effectively implement aquifer recharge and
aquifer storage and recovery.
(g) Funding mechanisms that may support staffing needed for  projects related to aquifer
recharge and aquifer storage and recovery.
(h) Federal and state funding programs that can support the projects.
SECTION 3.
Section 2 of this 2025 Act is repealed on January 2, 2027.
[2]