1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
79th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2017 Regular Session
House Bill 2447
Sponsored by Representative PARRISH (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Directs State Board of  Education to adopt standards requiring certain persons employed by
public schools to have valid certification in cardiopulmonary resuscitation and first aid.
Allows Department of Education to distribute moneys to school districts  and public charter
schools to assist persons in becoming certified.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to requirements for school employees working with students.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) As used in this section, “certification in  cardiopulmonary resuscitation
and first aid” means certification that indicates successful completion of  an accredited class
that:
(a) Is taught in compliance  with current American Heart Association guidelines for per-
forming, training, practicing and testing cardiopulmonary resuscitation and for the inte-
grated use of an automated external defibrillator;
(b) Is taught in compliance  with current American Heart Association guidelines for per-
forming, training, practicing and testing first aid; and
(c) Provides hands-on training  and testing of adult, child and infant first aid and
cardiopulmonary resuscitation  using current American Heart Association standards that in-
clude compressions and breaths and the integrated  use of an automated external
defibrillator.
(2) Every school district and public charter school  shall require a person to have valid
certification in cardiopulmonary resuscitation and first aid if the person is:
(a) A licensed or registered teacher employed by the school district  or public charter
school and teaching students in any grade from kindergarten through grade 12;
(b) A  full-time employee of the school district or public charter school who has direct
contact with students in any grade from kindergarten through grade 12; or
(c) An employee of the  school district or public charter school who works in food services
and who has direct contact with students in any grade from kindergarten through grade 12.
(3) The State Board of Education shall adopt by rule standards for certification in
cardiopulmonary resuscitation and first aid. In  developing the standards, the board shall
consult with American Heart Association guidelines.
(4) The Department of Education may distribute moneys to school districts  and public
charter schools for the purpose of paying the costs associated with assisting:
(a) Persons identified in subsection (2)  of this section with training to receive certifica-
tion in cardiopulmonary resuscitation and first aid; and
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2933
HB 2447
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
(b) School districts and public charter schools to ensure that persons identified in sub-
section (2) of this section are paid their  regular hourly wage while being trained to receive
certification in cardiopulmonary resuscitation and first aid.
SECTION 2. The requirement that  a person described in section 1 (2) of this 2017 Act
have a certification in cardiopulmonary resuscitation and first aid first  applies to the
2018-2019 school year.
[2]