1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 887
Sponsored by Senator GELSER BLOUIN, Representative NOSSE; Senators FREDERICK, PROZANSKI,  Represen-
tatives GAMBA, LIVELY
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act tells an agency  head to hire an organic policy specialist. The Act describes the
tasks of the new specialist. (Flesch Readability Score: 67.2).
Instructs the  Director of Agriculture to employ an organic policy special assistant to the di-
rector.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to an organic policy special assistant to the Director of Agriculture; amending ORS 561.070.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 561.070 is amended to read:
561.070. (1) The Director of Agriculture may  employ veterinarians, chemists, bacteriologists and
other experts, inspectors, accountants, stenographers, clerks or other  help necessary to carry out
efficiently  the  work of the State Department of Agriculture. The director may assign duties and re-
sponsibilities to each officer and employee of the department.
(2) The director may at any time designate or appoint any officer  or employee of the department
to act as assistant  director of agriculture and may terminate such designation or appointment at any
time, with or without cause. The assistant director of agriculture may perform such  duties of the
director as may be prescribed by the director.
(3) If the director appoints any research analysts pursuant to subsection (1) of  this section, two
of such research analysts may be members of unclassified service as provided in ORS chapter 240.
(4) The director shall employ an organic policy special assistant to the director  to coor-
dinate:
(a) The tracking of national trends, policies and regulatory changes that  impact the
production, marketing or certification of organic agricultural products.
(b) The marketing of organic agricultural products.
(c) The facilitation of trade in organic agricultural products, including  how to facilitate
trade with countries that largely produce, rather than import, organic agricultural products.
(d) Efforts by the department, in consultation with other state  agencies, to address gaps
in data related to organic agricultural products.
(e) Efforts  to establish and support statewide infrastructure for the post-harvest handl-
ing and processing of organic agricultural products.
(f) The  integration into all relevant department programs of policies that encourage or-
ganic practices.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 3864