1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
79th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2017 Regular Session
House Bill 2707
Sponsored by Representative HELM (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Appropriates moneys from General Fund to Water Resources Department for ground water
studies and  investigations, or other ground water data gathering and analysis, conducted in coop-
eration with United States Geological Survey in priority basins determined by department.
Declares emergency, effective July 1, 2017.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to state financial administration; and declaring an emergency.
Whereas the state integrated water resources strategy recognizes that Oregon has a  need for
additional ground water investigations  to further understand the relationship between ground water
and surface water and the availability of both; and
Whereas the state integrated water resources strategy provides that conducting ground  water
investigations is a priority of this state; now, therefore,
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there is appropri-
ated to the Water Resources Department, for the biennium beginning July 1, 2017, out of  the
General Fund, the amount of $_______, for ground water studies and investigations,  or other
ground water data gathering and analysis needed to assess and manage  Oregon’s ground
water resources, conducted in cooperation with  the United States Geological Survey in pri-
ority basins determined by the department.
SECTION 2. This 2017 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist,  and this 2017 Act takes effect
July 1, 2017.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2132