1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 1105
Sponsored by Senator BONHAM (at the request of Jason Gearhart)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act tells the DOJ to adopt by rule a process for requiring the use of  a monitored
debit card for spending child support payments. (Flesch Readability Score: 63.0).
Directs the child support administrator to adopt  rules requiring that child support awards be
distributed to a debit card and that the  spending of child support payments be limited and monitored
by the obligor and obligee for compliance.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to a child support debit card.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Administrator of the Division of Child Support of the Department
of Justice shall establish by  rule a procedure for remission of child support awards to
obligees by debit card, subject to the following requirements:
(a) The debit card may only be used by the obligee to make purchases that are necessary
items to ensure the welfare of the child for whom the support is made.
(b) The obligor and obligee must receive a ledger of purchases made by the obligee in the
prior month.
(c) The obligee  must provide the Department of Justice with a monthly accounting that
aligns with the debit card ledger and is supported by receipts.
(d) If the obligor objects to any purchase made by  the obligee, the obligor may petition
the court to be reimbursed for the amounts challenged.
(2) Beginning on the effective date of this 2025  Act, the department shall require that all
remissions of child support awards to obligees be made  to a debit card meeting the require-
ments under this section.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 4353