1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2794
Sponsored by Representative NELSON (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Tells a health care facility to make a process that a  staff member may use to complain
if the staff member believes in good faith supply or equipment is not safe. (Flesch Readability Score:
60.7).
Directs a health care facility to establish and  maintain procedures that a staff member may use
to submit to the health care facility a complaint regarding a medical  supply or equipment that the
staff member believes in good faith is faulty or dangerous.
Requires the health care facility to retain a complaint and  associated information for 10 years,
inform a person if the health care facility uses, has used or stops using  a medical supply or equip-
ment that is  subject to a complaint and establish and maintain procedures that a person may use
to obtain a copy of a complaint and associated information.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to the provision of care by health care facilities.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) As used in this section:
(a) “Associated information” means information gathered in the investigation of or  in
response to a complaint submitted by a staff person  regarding a medical supply or equipment
that a health care facility uses in the provision of care.
(b) “Health care facility” has the meaning given that term in ORS 441.015.
(c) “Staff person” means an individual employee  or contracted worker who works at or
for a health care facility.
(2) A health care facility shall:
(a) Establish and maintain procedures that a staff person  may use to submit to the
health care facility a complaint regarding a  medical supply or equipment that the health care
facility uses in the provision of care  if the staff person believes in good faith that the medical
supply or equipment is faulty or dangerous;
(b) Retain a copy  of a complaint submitted under this section and associated information
for a period of 10 years from the date a complaint is submitted to the health care facility;
(c) Inform a person if the health care facility uses or, within the last 10  years, has used
in the provision of care for the person a medical supply  or equipment that is subject to a
complaint retained under this section;
(d) Inform a person that the health care facility no longer uses  a medical supply or
equipment if:
(A) Within the last 10 years, the health care facility has used the medical supply or
equipment in the provision of care for the person;
(B) The health care facility stops using the medical supply or equipment; and
(C) The medical supply or equipment is subject to a complaint retained under this  sec-
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 897
HB 2794
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
tion; and
(e) Establish and maintain procedures that a person may use to  request and obtain a
copy of a complaint and associated information retained under this section regarding a
medical supply or equipment that the health care facility uses or, within  the last 10 years,
has used in the provision of care for the person.
(3)(a) The Oregon Health Authority shall adopt rules for health care facilities, except long
term care facilities, to carry out the provisions of this section.
(b) The Department  of Human Services shall adopt rules for long term care facilities to
carry out the provisions of this section.
(c) Rules adopted under this subsection must:
(A) Provide for uniform standards and procedures; and
(B) Protect  against disclosure of protected health information and other information
subject to state or federal laws limiting the disclosure of health information.
[2]