1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Joint Resolution 11
Sponsored by Senator GIROD (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act suggests a change to the Constitution to set aside money from  the lottery for
wildfires. (Flesch Readability Score: 60.1).
Proposes an amendment to the Oregon Constitution to require a certain percentage  of lottery
revenues to be expended for wildfire prevention, suppression or management.
Refers the proposed amendment to the people for their approval or rejection at the next regular
general election.
JOINT RESOLUTION
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
PARAGRAPH 1.
 The Constitution of the State of Oregon is amended by creating a new  section
4g to be added to and made a part of Article XV, such section to read:
SECTION 4g. Effective July 1, 2026,  ___ percent of the net proceeds from the State Lot-
tery shall be deposited, from the fund created by the  Legislative Assembly under paragraph
(d) of subsection (4) of section 4 of this Article, in a wildfire fund  created by the Legislative
Assembly. The Legislative Assembly may appropriate other  moneys or revenue to the
wildfire fund. The moneys in the wildfire fund may be used for purposes related to the pre-
vention, suppression or management of wildfires in Oregon.
PARAGRAPH 2. The amendment proposed by this resolution shall be submitted to  the
people for their approval or rejection  at the next regular general election held throughout
this state.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1315