1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2065
Introduced and  printed pursuant to House Rule 12.00. Presession filed (at the request of House Interim Committee
on Climate, Energy, and Environment for Representative John Lively)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Allows the use of a third party  to study or evaluate a request to connect a project to
a power system. (Flesch Readability Score: 60.6).
Allows a person to contract with a third-party consultant to  conduct a study or engineering
evaluation that a  public utility requires for an application to interconnect a community renewable
energy project or microgrid.
Takes effect on the 91st day following adjournment sine die.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to the interconnection process; and prescribing an effective date.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
Section 2 of this 2025 Act is added to and made a part of ORS chapter 757.
SECTION 2. (1) As used in this section:
(a) “Community renewable energy project” has the meaning given that term  in section
29, chapter 508, Oregon Laws 2021.
(b) “Microgrid” means an interconnected system  of loads and energy resources appro-
priately sized to meet customer needs within clearly defined electrical boundaries that  can
function as a single, controllable system independent from a utility transmission or distrib-
ution system.
(c) “Public utility” means a utility regulated by the Public Utility Commission  under ORS
chapter 757 that provides electric power to consumers.
(2) When a person applies to a public utility for authority to  interconnect a community
renewable energy project or microgrid with the public utility’s  transmission or distribution
system and the public utility concludes that the proposed interconnection requires  a study
or engineering evaluation, the person shall have the option to:
(a) Agree to have the public utility conduct the study or evaluation; or
(b) Contract with a third-party consultant to conduct the study or evaluation,  subject to
the public utility’s reasonable review and approval of the study or evaluation.
(3) A person who agrees to have the public utility conduct  the study or engineering
evaluation under subsection (2) of this section shall reimburse the public utility for  the rea-
sonable costs incurred by the public utility in performing the study or evaluation.
(4) A public utility  may, as a technical collaborator, contract with a third-party consult-
ant to conduct the study or engineering  evaluation requested under subsection (2) of this
section.
(5) A report that is  produced from a study or engineering evaluation conducted under
subsection (2) of  this section and has received a professional engineer stamp of approval shall
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1514
HB 2065
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
be considered a final report for purposes of review by a public utility of  an application to
interconnect a community  renewable energy project or microgrid with the public utility’s
transmission or distribution system.
(6) This section does not apply to  an interconnection between a community renewable
energy project or microgrid and a public utility that is subject to the  jurisdiction of the
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.
SECTION 3.
This 2025 Act takes effect on the 91st day after the date on  which the 2025
regular session of the Eighty-third Legislative Assembly adjourns sine die.
[2]