1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2024 Regular Session
House Bill 4110
Introduced and printed pursuant to House Rule 12.00. Presession filed (at the  request of Joint Committee on
Transportation for Port of Cascade Locks)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act gives money to the Port of Cascade Locks for the  Bridge of the Gods. The
money will be used for the bridge’s seismic  analysis and strengthening project. The Act takes effect
as soon as it is passed. (Flesch Readability Score: 83).
Appropriates moneys from the General Fund to the  Oregon Department of Administrative Ser-
vices for expenses related to the Bridge of the Gods seismic analysis and strengthening project.
Declares an emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to the Bridge of the Gods; and declaring an emergency.
Whereas the Bridge of the Gods is the only interstate bridge between Portland and  Hood River
to provide passage over the Columbia River; and
Whereas the Bridge of the Gods is a key transportation link that serves  the northern Oregon
regional economy; and
Whereas the Bridge of the  Gods is in a location that has been identified as seismically vulner-
able; and
Whereas the Bridge of the Gods is in  need of seismic strengthening and preservation in order
to continue to provide safe and reliable service for the region; and
Whereas analysis will reveal the current seismic resiliency of the Bridge of the Gods  and what
the costs will be for additional strengthening and preservation and  the addition of a multimodal
pathway to link Oregon and Washington; now, therefore,
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there is appropri-
ated to the  Oregon Department of Administrative Services, for the biennium ending June 30,
2025, out of the General Fund, the amount of $6,000,000, for distribution to  the Port of Cas-
cade Locks for the Bridge of the Gods seismic analysis and strengthening project.
SECTION 2. This 2024 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the  public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is  declared to exist, and this 2024 Act takes effect
on its passage.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 182