1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 359
Sponsored by Senator SMITH DB (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: This Act says  that any person can file a complaint for the DEQ to take action if
homeless persons are putting waste into state waters. (Flesch Readability Score: 63.0).
Authorizes any person  to submit a complaint to the Department of Environmental Quality if the
person reasonably believes that a camping site  of homeless individuals is causing the discharge of
wastes into state waters.
Directs the department to remove individuals from the camping site and clean the camping  site
as necessary to protect state waters.
Takes effect on the 91st day following adjournment sine die.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to the environmental impact of camping sites used by homeless  individuals on the waters
of the state; and prescribing an effective date.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
Section 2 of this 2025 Act is added to and made a  part of ORS chapter 468B.
SECTION 2. (1) As used in this section, “camping site” does not include an established
campground used by individuals in accordance with the terms and conditions established by
the owner of the campground.
(2) Any person may submit a complaint to the Department  of Environmental Quality if
the person reasonably believes  that an established camping site used by homeless individuals
is causing the discharge of any wastes into the waters of the state.
(3) Upon receiving a complaint under subsection (2) of this section, the  department shall
investigate the complaint. If the complaint is verified, the department shall:
(a) Cause the homeless individuals to be removed from the camping site; and
(b) Clean any wastes at  the camping site as necessary to protect the waters of the state.
(4)(a) The department may contract or collaborate  with any local government to carry
out removal and cleanup activities under this section.
(b) The removal of  homeless individuals under this section must be conducted in a man-
ner that conforms to the provisions of ORS 195.505.
(5) In investigating complaints  under this section, the department shall give priority to
complaints of waste discharges into surface waters that  are sources of municipal drinking
water.
SECTION 3.
This 2025 Act takes effect on the 91st day after the date on which the 2025
regular session of the Eighty-third Legislative Assembly adjourns sine die.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1462