1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2046
Sponsored by Representative WRIGHT (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act tells an agency to issue credits or adjust fees for  fishing tags or permits when
a fishing season is cut short or canceled. The Act  applies to both recreational and commercial
fishing seasons. (Flesch Readability Score: 60.9).
Directs the State Fish and Wildlife Commission to issue credits or adjust fees for angling  tags
and permits  when an angling season is shortened or canceled, in proportion to the portion of the
season during which the tags or permits may not be used.
Directs the commission  to issue credits or adjust fees for commercial fishing permits when a
commercial  fishing  season is shortened or canceled, in proportion to the portion of the season during
which the permits may not be used.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to fishing season curtailment.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
Section 2 of this 2025 Act is added to and made a part of ORS chapter 497.
SECTION 2. Notwithstanding ORS 497.061, if the State Fish  and Wildlife Commission
shortens or cancels a season for angling:
(1) After the start of the season,  the commission shall issue a credit that may be used
in a future season for angling, under a state computerized licensing system, to a person  that
holds an unfilled tag or permit to angle during the season,  in proportion to the portion of the
season during which the person is not allowed to angle under the unfilled  tag or permit, if
the person:
(a) Requests the credit under the state computerized licensing system; and
(b) Returns the unfilled tag or permit to the commission.
(2) Before the start of the season, the commission may only charge a person for a portion
of the fee for the permit or tag described in  ORS 497.061 for the season that is in proportion
to the portion of the  season during which the person will be allowed to angle under the tag
or permit.
SECTION 3.
Section 4 of this 2025 Act is added to and made a part of ORS chapter 508.
SECTION 4. Notwithstanding any contrary provision of ORS chapter 508, if the State Fish
and Wildlife Commission shortens or cancels a season pursuant to which a person  may take
fish under a permit issued under ORS chapter 508:
(1) After the start of the season, the commission shall issue  a credit that may be used
in a future season under which a person may take fish under a permit issued  under ORS
chapter 508, under a state  computerized licensing system, to a person that holds an unfilled
permit to take fish  during the season, in proportion to the portion of the season during
which the person is not allowed to take fish under the unfilled permit, if the person:
(a) Requests the credit under the state computerized licensing system; and
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 173
HB 2046
1
2
3
4
5
6
(b) Returns the unfilled permit to the commission.
(2) Before the start of the season, the commission may only charge a person for a portion
of the fee for a permit described in ORS chapter 508 for the season that  is in proportion to
the portion of the season during which the person will be allowed to take fish under the
permit.
[2]