1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Joint Resolution 6
Sponsored by Representative EVANS (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The measure asks voters  to impose a tax on property to pay for projects to reduce risks
from disasters. The tax would end after  20 years. The measure asks voters to say yes or no at the
next general election. (Flesch Readability Score: 72.7).
Proposes an amendment to the Oregon Constitution imposing a  tax on property, providing that
the tax is  not subject to specified other constitutional limits on property taxes, providing that re-
venues from the tax must be deposited in an emergency resilience fund, providing that moneys in
the fund may be used only for emergency resilience projects, and repealing these  provisions on June
30, 2046.
Refers the proposed amendment to the people for their approval or rejection at the next regular
general election.
JOINT RESOLUTION
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
PARAGRAPH 1.
 The Constitution of the State of Oregon is amended by creating a new  section
16 to be added to and made part of Article XI, such section to read:
SECTION 16. (1) There is imposed a tax on each unit of property in this state at a rate
of $1 per $1,000 of the property’s real market value.
(2) The tax imposed by this section is not subject to section 11 or 11b of this Article.
(3) The Legislative Assembly shall determine by law the  manner of administration of the
tax.
(4) The Legislative Assembly may,  by law, exempt property from taxation under this
section.
(5) Revenues from the tax  imposed by this section must be deposited in an emergency
resilience fund  created by the Legislative Assembly. Earnings on moneys in the fund must
be deposited in the fund. The  Legislative Assembly may deposit other moneys or revenues
in the fund. The Legislative Assembly shall by law develop and  implement a program for the
award of grants  or loans from the fund. Moneys in the fund may be used only for emergency
resilience projects.
(6) At least  once per biennium, the state agency or agencies charged with administration
of the emergency resilience fund shall report to the Legislative Assembly on the amounts
and purposes of expenditures from the fund.
(7) As used in this section, “emergency resilience projects”:
(a) Means projects performed to  anticipate or reduce risks to property and health re-
sulting from disasters including but not limited to earthquakes,  landslides, avalanches,
volcanic eruptions, floods or other hydrological disasters, storms or other meteorological
disasters, wildfires and attack.
(b) Includes, without limitation:
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2417
HJR 6
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
(A) Construction,  rehabilitation and maintenance of facilities or public spaces for disaster
planning, preparedness, mitigation, response and recovery; and
(B) Support for essential support function missions coordinated or recognized by a  fed-
eral agency.
(c) Does not include projects required to  meet minimum standards imposed by applicable
building codes or other applicable law.
(8) The prohibition on declarations of emergency under section 1a, Article IX of this
Constitution, does not apply to acts required or authorized under this section.
(9) This section is repealed June 30, 2046. Any moneys remaining in the emergency
resilience fund on the date of  repeal of this section, and all moneys that would have been
deposited in the fund had this section stayed  in effect, shall be transferred to and deposited
in the General Fund to be available for general governmental purposes.
PARAGRAPH 2.
The amendment proposed by this resolution shall be submitted to  the
people for their approval or rejection  at the next regular general election held throughout
this state.
[2]