83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Enrolled
House Bill 3544
Sponsored by Representatives HELM, OWENS; Representative LEVY E
CHAPTER .................................................
AN ACT
Relating to water; creating new provisions; amending ORS 536.050, 536.750,  537.140, 537.147, 537.153,
537.170, 537.175, 537.225, 537.227, 537.295, 537.297, 537.343, 537.409,  537.420, 537.445, 537.470,
537.621, 537.622, 537.625, 537.628, 537.629, 540.520, 540.524, 540.537, 540.560, 540.641, 543.255 and
543.765 and sections 30, 33a and 48, chapter 282, Oregon Laws 2025 (Enrolled House Bill 3342);
and repealing  sections 5, 32, 33 and 39, chapter 282, Oregon Laws 2025 (Enrolled House Bill
3342).
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
UNIFORM PROCESS FOR CONTESTED CASES
SECTION 1.
Sections 2 and 3 of this 2025 Act are added  to and made a part of ORS
chapter 536.
SECTION 2. (1) As used in this section and section 3  of this 2025 Act, “contested case”
has the meaning given that term in ORS 183.310.
(2) This section and section 3 of this 2025 Act and rules adopted thereunder apply to:
(a) A contested case proceeding under a provision of ORS chapter 537  or 540 that refer-
ences this section.
(b) A contested case proceeding on an application related to the use of water  under a
provision of ORS chapter 537, 540 or 541 in which the contested case proceeding  is provided
for in rule or order and the rule or order refers to this section.
(3) The Water Resources Commission and the Office of  Administrative Hearings shall
establish a  uniform process for hearing contested cases that is consistent with this section
and with ORS chapter 183. The contested case proceeding must be conducted in accordance
with applicable provisions of ORS chapter 183 that govern contested cases,  except as other-
wise provided in this section and section 3 of this 2025 Act and administrative  rules adopted
under this section and section 3 of this 2025 Act, or as specified in ORS  chapters 537, 540 and
541.
(4) The Water Resources  Department, in consultation with the Office of Administrative
Hearings, shall establish one or more  default hearing schedules that govern contested case
hearings and provide that the process, from a referral for a hearing to a completion of the
hearing, must  be completed in not more than 180 days, except as provided in subsection (5)
of this section. The default  schedule must include deadlines for discovery requests and re-
sponses and motions to compel discovery and may include other deadlines.
Enrolled House Bill 3544 (HB 3544-C) Page 1
(5) The Office of Administrative Hearings may allow an  extension of the hearing schedule
only under the following circumstances:
(a) The department, after consulting with the parties, requests a different  schedule for
a particular contested case;
(b) The chief administrative law judge, upon  referral, determines that adhering to the
default schedule is not feasible in a particular contested case; or
(c) The administrative law judge assigned to the case  determines that modifying the de-
fault schedule for a particular contested case serves the  public interest, is necessary to
provide due process or is in the interest of justice.
(6) An administrative law  judge shall, to the greatest extent practicable, give preference
to testimony being provided orally rather than in writing.
(7) The administrative law judge shall determine the venue for conducting the  hearing,
subject to the approval of the Water Resources Department, and shall  give preference to
conducting a hearing by a remote method.
(8) The department,  after consultation with the parties, may request that the Office of
Administrative Hearings authorize  the assignment of a settlement administrative law judge.
If the office assigns a settlement administrative law judge to a case,  the parties have 60 days
after the date of the referral to reach a settlement of the  case before continuing to a hear-
ing. If the department refers the case for review with a settlement  administrative law judge
and the case  does not resolve within 60 days after the date of the referral, the case proceeds
to a  contested case hearing and the contested case hearing must be completed within 180
days after the end of the 60-day period, except as provided in subsection (5) of this section.
(9) The commission shall establish standard timelines for the department to rule  on a
request for party status.
(10) The commission may adopt rules necessary to implement this section.
SECTION 3.
(1) To initiate a contested case proceeding that is subject to this  section and
section 2 of this 2025 Act:
(a) Any person may submit a protest against a proposed final order.
(b) Unless a timeline is otherwise specified  under ORS chapter 537, 540 or 541, the protest
must be submitted within 45 days after publication of the  notice of the proposed final order
in a weekly public notice of the Water Resources  Department or, if weekly public notice is
not required, within 45 days after issuance of notice of the proposed final order.
(c) The protest must:
(A) Be in writing;
(B) Include the name, address and telephone number of the protestant;
(C) Include a description of the protestant’s interest in the proposed  final order and, if
the protestant claims to represent the public interest, a precise statement of the public in-
terest represented;
(D) Include a detailed  description of how the action proposed in the proposed final order
would impair or be detrimental to the protestant’s interest;
(E) Raise an issue with sufficient specificity to  allow response to the issue, as described
in subsection (3)(b) of this section;
(F) Identify any citation of legal authority supporting the protest, if known; and
(G) Include the protest fee required under ORS 536.050.
(2) If  a protest is submitted as described in subsection (5) of this section, within 30 days
after the deadline for filing a protest:
(a) Any person who supports the proposed  final order may file a request for party status
for the purpose of  participating in any contested case proceeding on the proposed final order
or for judicial review of a final order resulting from the proposed final order.
(b) The request for party status must:
(A) Be in writing.
(B) Meet all requirements established in rule by the Water Resources Commission.
Enrolled House Bill 3544 (HB 3544-C) Page 2
(C) Include the fees described in ORS 536.050 (1)(n) and (o).
(3) In a contested case proceeding under this section:
(a) A hearing need not occur if:
(A) All issues in the contested case are resolved as part of a settlement;
(B) The protest is withdrawn; or
(C) The protestant defaults.
(b) A  protest must raise an issue with sufficient specificity to allow response to the issue.
To raise an issue with sufficient specificity, the protest must:
(A) Identify the recommended findings of fact, conclusions  of law or conditions of ap-
proval to which the protestant objects; and
(B) Explain how the issues raised in the protest  are within the jurisdiction of the de-
partment.
(c) Not later than  the end of the protest period, each person that submits a protest shall
raise all reasonably ascertainable issues and  submit all reasonably available arguments that
support the person’s position.
(d) A failure to raise a reasonably ascertainable issue in a  protest or a failure to provide
sufficient specificity to afford the department an opportunity to respond to  the issue pre-
cludes judicial review of that issue.
(4) If no protest on a  proposed final order that is subject to this section and section 2
of this 2025 Act is timely received, as a matter of  law, the proposed final order shall become
a final order on the date that is 33 days after the close of the time period for submitting  a
protest, with no further action required by the department.
(5) Notwithstanding subsection (4) of this section,  not more than 33 days after the close
of the time period for submitting a protest, the department  may withdraw a proposed final
order for reconsideration and issuance of a superseding proposed final order.
(6) The department shall refund the fees described in ORS 536.050 (1)(o) if party status
is denied.
(7) The Water Resources Commission  may adopt rules necessary to implement this sec-
tion.
SECTION 3a.
 If House Bill 3342 becomes law, section 3 of this 2025 Act is amended to read:
Sec. 3.  (1) To initiate a contested case proceeding that is  subject to this section and section 2
of this 2025 Act:
(a) Any person may submit a protest against a proposed final order.
(b) Unless a timeline  is otherwise specified under ORS chapter 537, 540 or 541, the protest must
be submitted within 45 days after publication  of the notice of the proposed final order in a weekly
public notice of the Water Resources Department or, if weekly public notice is  not required, within
45 days after issuance of notice of the proposed final order.
(c) The protest must:
(A) Be in writing;
(B) Include the name, address and telephone number of the protestant;
(C) Include a description of the protestant’s interest in the  proposed final order and, if the
protestant claims to represent the public interest, a precise statement of the public  interest repres-
ented;
(D) Include a detailed description of how the action proposed in the proposed  final order would
impair or be detrimental to the protestant’s interest;
(E) Raise an issue with sufficient specificity  to allow response to the issue, as described in
subsection (3)(b) of this section;
(F) Identify any citation of legal authority supporting the protest, if known; and
(G) Include the protest fee required under ORS 536.050.
(2) If a protest is submitted [ as described in subsection (5) of  this section ], within 30 days after
the deadline for filing a protest:
Enrolled House Bill 3544 (HB 3544-C) Page 3
(a) Any person  who supports the proposed final order may file a request for party status for the
purpose of participating in any contested case proceeding on the proposed final order or for judicial
review of a final order resulting from the proposed final order.
(b) The request for party status must:
(A) Be in writing.
(B) Meet all requirements established in rule by the Water Resources Commission.
(C) Include the fees described in ORS 536.050 (1)(n) and (o).
(3) In a contested case proceeding under this section:
(a) A hearing need not occur if:
(A) All issues in the contested case are resolved as part of a settlement;
(B) The protest is withdrawn; or
(C) The protestant defaults.
(b) A protest must raise an issue with sufficient specificity to allow response to  the issue. To
raise an issue with sufficient specificity, the protest must:
(A) Identify the  recommended findings of fact, conclusions of law or conditions of approval to
which the protestant objects; and
(B) Explain how the issues raised in the protest are within the jurisdiction of the department.
(c) Not later than the end of the protest period, each person that  submits a protest shall raise
all reasonably  ascertainable issues and submit all reasonably available arguments that support the
person’s position.
(d) A failure to raise a  reasonably ascertainable issue in a protest or a failure to provide suffi-
cient specificity to afford the department an opportunity to respond to the issue precludes judicial
review of that issue.
(4) If no protest on a proposed final order that is  subject to this section and section 2 of this
2025 Act is timely received, as a matter of law, the proposed final order shall become a final  order
on the date that is 33 days after the close of the  time period for submitting a protest, with no fur-
ther action required by the department.
(5) Notwithstanding subsection (4) of  this section, not more than 33 days after the close of the
time period for submitting a protest, the  department may withdraw a proposed final order for re-
consideration and issuance of a superseding proposed final order.
(6) The department shall refund the fees described in  ORS 536.050 (1)(o) if party status is denied.
(7) The Water Resources Commission may adopt rules necessary to implement this section.
CONTESTED CASES
SECTION 4.
 ORS 537.140 is amended to read:
537.140. (1)(a) Each application for a permit to appropriate water shall be made to  the Water
Resources Department on a form prescribed by the department and shall set forth:
(A) The name and mailing address of the applicant;
(B) The source of water supply including the name and mailing  address of any owner of the land
upon which the source of the water supply is located;
(C) The nature and amount of the proposed use;
(D) The location and description  of the proposed ditch, canal or other work, including the name
and mailing address of the owner of any  lands that are not owned by the applicant and that are
crossed by the proposed ditch, canal or other  work even if the applicant has obtained written au-
thorization or an easement from the owner;
(E) A statement declaring whether the  applicant has written authorization or an easement per-
mitting access to nonowned land crossed by the proposed ditch, canal or other work;
(F) The time within which it is proposed to begin construction;
(G) The time required for completion of the construction;
(H) The time for the complete application of the water to the proposed use; and
Enrolled House Bill 3544 (HB 3544-C) Page 4
(I) Any other information required in the application form that is necessary to evaluate the ap-
plication as established by statute and rule.
(b) If  for agricultural purposes, the application shall give the legal subdivisions of the land and
the acreage to be irrigated, as near as may be.
(c) Except as provided in subsection (2) of this section, if for power  purposes, the application
shall give the nature of the works by means of  which the power is to be developed, the head and
amount of water to be utilized, and the uses to which the power is to be applied.
(d) If for construction of a reservoir,  the application shall give the height of dam, the capacity
of the reservoir, and the uses to be made of the impounded waters.
(e) If for municipal water supply, the application shall give  the present population to be served,
and, as near as may be, the future requirements of the city.
(f) If for mining purposes, the application  shall give the nature of the mines to be served, and
the methods of supplying and utilizing the water.
(2) Any  person who has applied to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission for a preliminary
permit or an exemption from licensing shall, at the same time, apply to  the Water Resources De-
partment for a  permit to appropriate water for a hydroelectric project. An applicant for a permit
to appropriate water for a new hydroelectric  project shall submit to the department a complete copy
of any  application for the project filed with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission or other
federal agency. If the copy of the federal application is  filed with the department at the same time
it is filed with the federal agency, at  the department’s discretion such copy may fulfill the require-
ments for an application under subsection (1) of this section.
(3) Each application shall be accompanied by any map or drawing and all other data  concerning
the proposed project  and the applicant’s ability and intention to construct the project, as may be
prescribed by the Water Resources Commission. The accompanying  data shall be considered a part
of the application.
(4) The map or drawing required to accompany  the application shall be of sufficient quality and
scale to establish the location of the proposed point of diversion and the proposed place of use
identified by tax lot, township, range, section and nearest quarter-quarter section along with a no-
tation of the acreage of the proposed place  of use, if appropriate. In addition, the department shall
accept locational coordinate information,  including latitude and longitude as established by a global
positioning system. If the application is for a water right for a municipal use, the map  need not
identify the proposed place of use by tax lot.
(5) Each application for a  permit to appropriate water shall be accompanied by the examination
fee set forth in ORS 536.050 (1).
(6) If the  proposed use of the water is for operation of a mining operation as defined in ORS
517.952, the applicant shall provide the information required under this section as part of the  con-
solidated application under ORS 517.952 to 517.989.
[(7) Notwithstanding any provision of ORS chapter 183,  an application for a permit to appropriate
water shall be processed in the manner set forth in ORS  537.120 to 537.360. Nothing in ORS chapter
183 shall be construed to allow additional persons to participate in the  process. To the extent that any
provision in ORS chapter 183 conflicts  with a provision set forth in ORS 537.120 to 537.360, the pro-
visions in ORS 537.120 to 537.360 shall control. ]
SECTION 5.
 ORS 537.153 is amended to read:
537.153. (1) Within 60 days after the Water Resources Department proceeds with the application
under ORS  537.150 (5), the department shall complete application review and issue a proposed final
order approving or denying the application  or approving the application with modifications or con-
ditions. The  department may request the applicant to provide additional information needed to
complete the review. If the department  requests additional information, the request shall be specific
and shall be sent to the applicant by registered mail. The department shall specify a date  by which
the information must be returned, which shall be not less than 10 days after the department mails
the request to the applicant. If the department does not receive the information or  a request for a
time extension under ORS 537.175 by the date specified  in the request, the department may reject
Enrolled House Bill 3544 (HB 3544-C) Page 5
the application and may refund fees in accordance  with ORS 536.050 (4)(a). The time period specified
by the department in a request for additional information shall allow the department  to comply with
the 60-day time limit established by this subsection.
(2) In reviewing the application under subsection (1) of this section, the  department shall pre-
sume that a proposed use will not impair or be detrimental to the public interest  if the proposed
use is allowed in the applicable basin program established pursuant to  ORS 536.300 and 536.340 or
given a preference under ORS 536.310 (12), if water is available, if the proposed use  will not injure
other water rights and if the proposed use complies with  rules of the Water Resources Commission.
This shall be  a rebuttable presumption and may be overcome by a preponderance of evidence that
either:
(a) One or more of the criteria for establishing the presumption are not satisfied; or
(b) The proposed use will impair or be detrimental to the public interest  as demonstrated in
comments, in  a protest under [ subsection (6) of this ] section 3 of this 2025 Act  or in a finding of the
department that shows:
(A) The specific public interest under ORS 537.170 [ (8)] (5)  that would be  impaired or detri-
mentally affected; and
(B) Specifically how the identified public interest would be impaired or detrimentally affected.
(3) The proposed final order shall cite findings of fact and conclusions  of law and shall include
but need not be limited to:
(a) Confirmation or modification of the preliminary determinations made in the initial review;
(b) A brief statement that explains the  criteria considered relevant to the decision, including the
applicable basin program and the compatibility of the proposed use with applicable land use plans;
(c) An assessment of water availability and the amount of water necessary for the  proposed use;
(d) An assessment of whether the proposed use would result in injury to existing water rights;
(e) An assessment of whether the proposed use would impair or be detrimental to the public
interest as provided in ORS 537.170;
(f) A draft permit, including any proposed conditions, or a recommendation to  deny the appli-
cation;
(g) Whether the rebuttable presumption that the proposed use will not  impair or be detrimental
to the public interest has been established; and
(h) The date by which protests to the proposed final order must be received  by the department.
(4) The department shall mail copies of  the proposed final order to the applicant and to persons
who have requested copies and paid the fee required under ORS  536.050 (1)(p). The department also
shall publish notice of  the proposed final order by publication in the weekly notice published by the
department.
[(5) Any person who  supports a proposed final order may request standing for purposes of partic-
ipating in any contested case proceeding on the proposed final order or for judicial  review of a final
order. A request for standing shall  be in writing and shall be accompanied by the fee established under
ORS 536.050 (1)(n). ]
[(6) Any person may submit a protest against  a proposed final order. A protest shall be in writing
and shall include: ]
[(a) The name, address and telephone number of the protestant; ]
[(b) A description  of the protestant’s interest in the proposed final order and, if the protestant
claims to represent the public interest, a precise statement of the public interest represented; ]
[(c) A detailed description of how the action proposed in  the proposed final order would impair
or be detrimental to the protestant’s interest; ]
[(d) A detailed description of how the  proposed final order is in error or deficient and how to
correct the alleged error or deficiency; ]
[(e) Any citation of legal authority supporting the protest, if known; and ]
[(f) The protest fee required under ORS 536.050. ]
[(7) Requests for  standing and protests on the proposed final order shall be submitted within 45
days after publication of the notice of the proposed final order in  the weekly notice published by the
Enrolled House Bill 3544 (HB 3544-C) Page 6
department. Any person who asks to receive a copy of the department’s final order shall submit to  the
department the fee required under ORS 536.050 (1)(p), unless the  person has previously requested
copies and paid the required fee under ORS 537.150  (7), the person is a protestant and has paid the
fee required under ORS 536.050 (1)(j) or the person has standing and has paid the fee under ORS
536.050 (1)(n).]
(5) A person who asks to receive a copy of the department’s final order shall submit  to
the department the fee required under ORS 536.050  (1)(p), unless the person has previously
requested copies and has paid  the fee required under ORS 537.150 (7), the person is a
protestant and has paid  the fee required under ORS 536.050 (1)(j) or the person has party
status and has paid the fees required under ORS 536.050 (1)(n) and (o).
(6) The provisions  of sections 2 and 3 of this 2025 Act, and rules adopted thereunder,
apply to a contested case proceeding on a proposed final order issued under this section.
[(8)] (7)  Within 60 days after the close of the period  for receiving protests,  if a protest was
timely submitted,  the Water Resources Director shall:
(a) Issue  a final order as provided under ORS 537.170 [ (6); or ] (1) or (2), if the applicant has
not filed a protest and  the director finds that there are no significant issues related to the
proposed use of water;
(b) Schedule a contested case hearing if a protest has been submitted ; or  [ and if: ]
(c) Provide any person who timely submitted a protest or request for  party status with
an estimate of the timing of referring the contested case to the Office of Administrative
Hearings for a hearing and notice that parties may provide settlement proposals.
[(A) Upon review of the issues, the director finds  that there are significant disputes related to the
proposed use of water; or ]
[(B) Within 30 days after the close  of the period for submitting protests, the applicant requests a
contested case hearing. ]
SECTION 5a.
If House Bill 3342 becomes law, section 32, chapter 282, Oregon Laws 2025
(Enrolled House Bill 3342) (amending ORS 537.153), is repealed and  ORS 537.153, as amended
by section 5 of this 2025 Act, is amended to read:
537.153. (1) Within 60 days after the Water Resources Department proceeds with the application
under ORS  537.150 (5) (c), the department shall complete application review and issue a proposed
final order approving  or denying the application or approving the application with modifications or
conditions. The department  may request the applicant to provide additional information needed to
complete the review. If the department  requests additional information, the request shall be specific
and shall be sent to the applicant by registered mail. The department shall specify a date  by which
the information must be returned, which shall be not less than 10 days after the department mails
the request to the applicant.  If the department does not receive the information or a request for a
time extension under ORS 537.175 by the date  specified in the request, the department may reject
the application and may refund fees in accordance  with ORS 536.050 (4)(a). The time period specified
by the department in a request for additional information shall allow the department  to comply with
the 60-day time limit established by this subsection.
(2) In reviewing the  application under subsection (1) of this section, the department shall pre-
sume that a proposed  use will not impair or be detrimental to the public interest if the proposed
use is allowed in the applicable  basin program established pursuant to ORS 536.300 and 536.340 or
given a preference under  ORS 536.310 (12), if water is available, if the proposed use will not injure
other water rights and if the proposed use complies with  rules of the Water Resources Commission.
This shall be a rebuttable presumption and may be overcome by a preponderance of  evidence that
either:
(a) One or more of the criteria for establishing the presumption are not satisfied; or
(b) The proposed use  will impair or be detrimental to the public interest as demonstrated in
comments, in a protest under section 3  of this 2025 Act or in a finding of the department that shows:
(A) The  specific public interest under ORS 537.170 (5) that would be impaired or detrimentally
affected;  and
Enrolled House Bill 3544 (HB 3544-C) Page 7
(B) Specifically how the identified public interest would be impaired or detrimentally affected.
(3) The proposed final order shall  cite findings of fact and conclusions of law and shall include
but need not be limited to:
(a) Confirmation or modification of the preliminary determinations made in the initial review;
(b) A brief statement that explains the  criteria considered relevant to the decision, including the
applicable basin program and the compatibility of the proposed use with applicable land use plans;
(c) An assessment of water availability and the amount of water necessary for the  proposed use;
(d) An assessment of whether the proposed use would result in injury to existing water rights;
(e) An assessment of whether the proposed use would impair or be detrimental to the public
interest as provided in ORS 537.170;
(f) A draft permit,  including any proposed conditions, or a recommendation to deny the appli-
cation;
(g) Whether the rebuttable presumption that the proposed use will not  impair or be detrimental
to the public interest has been established; and
(h) The date by which protests to the proposed final order must be received  by the department.
(4) The department shall mail copies of  the proposed final order to the applicant and to persons
who have requested copies and paid the fee required under ORS  536.050 (1)(p). The department also
shall publish notice  of the proposed final order by publication in the weekly public notice published
by the department.
(5) A person who asks to receive a copy of the department’s final  order shall submit to the de-
partment the  fee required under ORS 536.050 (1)(p), unless the person has previously requested
copies and has paid the fee required under ORS 537.150 (7), the person  is a protestant and has paid
the fee required under ORS 536.050 (1)(j)  or the person has party status and has paid the fees re-
quired under ORS 536.050 (1)(n) and (o).
(6) The provisions of sections 2 and 3 of this 2025 Act, and rules adopted thereunder,  apply to
a contested case proceeding on a proposed final order issued under this section.
(7) Within 60  days after the close of the period for receiving protests, if a protest was timely
submitted, the Water Resources Director shall:
(a) Issue a final order as provided under  ORS 537.170 (1) or (2), if the applicant has not filed a
protest and the director finds that there are no significant issues related to the proposed  use of
water;
(b) Schedule a contested case hearing if a protest has been submitted; or
(c) Provide any person who timely  submitted a protest or request for party status with an esti-
mate of the timing of referring the contested case  to the Office of Administrative Hearings for a
hearing and notice that parties may provide settlement proposals.
SECTION 6.
 ORS 537.170 is amended to read:
537.170. [(1) Within 45  days after the Water Resources Director schedules a contested case hearing
under ORS 537.153 (8), the Water Resources Department shall  hold the contested case hearing. The
issues to be considered in the contested  case hearing shall be limited to issues identified by the ad-
ministrative law judge. ]
[(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of ORS  chapter 183 pertaining to contested case proceedings,
the parties to any contested case hearing initiated under this section shall be limited to: ]
[(a) The applicant; ]
[(b) Any person who timely filed a protest; and ]
[(c) Any person  who timely filed a request for standing under ORS 537.153 (5) and who requests
to intervene in the contested case hearing prior to the start of the proceeding. ]
[(3) The contested case proceeding shall be conducted in  accordance with the applicable provisions
of ORS chapter 183 except: ]
[(a) As provided in subsections (1) and (2) of this section; and ]
[(b) An interlocutory appeal under ORS 183.480 (3) shall not be allowed. ]
Enrolled House Bill 3544 (HB 3544-C) Page 8
[(4) If applicable, an  application to appropriate water for the generation of electricity submitted
under ORS 537.140 shall be included in the consolidated review and hearings process  under ORS
543.255.]
[(5) Each person  submitting a protest or a request for standing shall raise all reasonably
ascertainable issues and submit all reasonably available arguments supporting the person’s  position
by the close of the protest period. Failure to raise a reasonably ascertainable issue in a protest or in
a hearing or failure to provide sufficient specificity to afford the Water Resources  Department an op-
portunity to respond to the issue precludes judicial review based on that issue. ]
[(6)] (1)  If  a protest of a proposed final order  issued under ORS 537.153 is filed under
section 3 of this 2025 Act and , after the contested case  hearing or, if a hearing is not held, after
the close of the period allowed to file a protest, the Water Resources  Director determines that  the
proposed use does not comply with the standards set forth in ORS 543.017 or  rules adopted by the
Water Resources Commission under ORS 543.017 or would otherwise impair  or be detrimental to the
public interest, the director shall issue a final order rejecting the application or  modifying the pro-
posed final order to conform to the public interest.
(2) If  a protest of a proposed final order issued under ORS 537.153 is filed under section
3 of this 2025 Act and , after the contested case  hearing or, if a hearing is not held, after the close
of the period allowed to file a protest, the director determines that the proposed use  would not im-
pair or be detrimental to the public interest, the director shall issue a final order  approving the
application or otherwise modifying the proposed final order.
(3) A  final order may set forth any of the provisions or restrictions to be included in the permit
concerning the use, control and management of the water to be appropriated  for the project, in-
cluding, but not limited to, a specification of reservoir  operation and minimum releases to protect
the public interest.
(4) An interlocutory appeal under ORS 183.480 (3) is not allowed in a contested case  pro-
ceeding under this section.
[(7) If a contested case hearing is not held: ]
[(a) Where the final order modifies the proposed final order, the applicant may request and  the
department shall schedule a contested case hearing as provided under subsection (3) of this  section by
submitting the information required for a protest under ORS 537.153  (6) within 14 days after the di-
rector issues the final order. However, the issues on which a contested  case hearing may be requested
and conducted under this paragraph shall be  limited to issues based on the modifications to the pro-
posed final order. ]
[(b) Only the applicant or a protestant may appeal the provisions of the final order in  the manner
established in ORS chapter 183 for appeal of order other than contested cases. ]
(5) If a contested case hearing is not held under ORS 537.153 (7)(a) where  the final order
modifies the proposed final order, the applicant, a person granted party status or  a
protestant may submit a  protest under section 2 or 3 of this 2025 Act within 14 days after
the director issues the final order, except that the issues on which a  contested case hearing
may be requested and conducted under this  subsection are limited to issues based on the
modifications to the  proposed final order. The department must hold a hearing if the
protestant is an applicant.
(6) If a protest of a proposed final order issued under ORS 537.153 is  filed under section
3 of this 2025 Act by a person other than the applicant and, as described in ORS 537.153 (7)(a),
the director issues a final order without holding a contested case hearing, a  protestant may
appeal the provisions of the  final order in the manner established in ORS chapter 183 for
appeal of orders in other than contested cases.
[(8)] (7)  If the presumption of public interest under ORS 537.153 (2) is overcome, then before
issuing a final order, the director or the commission,  if applicable, shall make the final determi-
nation of whether the proposed use or  the proposed use as modified in the proposed final order
would impair or be detrimental to the public interest by considering:
Enrolled House Bill 3544 (HB 3544-C) Page 9
(a) Conserving the highest use of  the water for all purposes, including irrigation, domestic use,
municipal water supply, power  development, public recreation, protection of commercial and game
fishing and wildlife, fire protection,  mining, industrial purposes, navigation, scenic attraction or any
other beneficial use to which the water may be applied for which it may have a special value to the
public.
(b) The maximum economic development of the waters involved.
(c) The control of the  waters of this state for all beneficial purposes, including drainage, sani-
tation and flood control.
(d) The amount of waters available for appropriation for beneficial use.
(e) The prevention of wasteful,  uneconomic, impracticable or unreasonable use of the waters
involved.
(f) All vested and  inchoate rights to the waters of this state or to the use of the waters of this
state, and the means necessary to protect such rights.
(g) The state  water resources policy formulated under ORS 536.295 to 536.350 and 537.505 to
537.534.
[(9)] (8) Upon issuing a final order, the director shall notify the applicant and each person who
submitted written comments or protests or otherwise requested notice of the final order  and send
a copy of the final order to any person who requested a copy and paid the fee required  under ORS
536.050 (1)(p).
SECTION 7.
 ORS 537.175 is amended to read:
537.175. (1) Except as provided in subsection (2) of this section, the Water Resources Department
shall issue a final order or schedule a contested case hearing on an application  for a water right
referred  to  in ORS 537.140 or 537.400 within 180 days after the department proceeds with the ap-
plication under ORS 537.150 (5).
(2) At the request of the  applicant, the department may extend the 180-day period set forth in
subsection (1) of this section for a reasonable period of time.
[(3) If a contested case hearing is held, the department shall issue a final order: ]
[(a) Within 270 days after scheduling the  hearing for a contested case proceeding that involves
three or more parties not including the department; and ]
[(b) Within 180 days after scheduling the hearing for all other contested case proceedings. ]
[(4)] (3)  If the applicant does not request an extension under subsection (2) of this section  and
the department fails to issue a proposed final order or schedule a contested case hearing on an  ap-
plication for a water right within 180 days after the department  proceeds with the application under
ORS 537.150 (5), the applicant may apply  in the Circuit Court for Marion County for a writ of
mandamus to compel the department to issue a final order or schedule a contested case hearing on
an application for  a water right. If the application is for an out-of-stream use, the writ of mandamus
shall compel the department to  issue a water right permit, unless the department shows by affidavit
that to issue a permit may result in harm to an existing water right holder.
SECTION 8.
 ORS 537.225 is amended to read:
537.225. (1) Notwithstanding ORS 537.220 and 537.635, except as provided in  subsection [ (6)] (7)
of this section, a record landowner holding a water  right permit for an irrigation, nursery, temper-
ature control, stock watering or agricultural water use that has a  subsequent completion date may
apply for assignment of all or part  of the water right permit and for the issuance of a replacement
water right permit that reflects that assignment. To  obtain the assignment and replacement water
right permits, the  applicant shall submit an application to the Water Resources Department that
includes, at a minimum:
(a) A map prepared by a certified water right examiner and meeting department  mapping
standards that identifies  the authorized place of use, rate of use, any applicable acre-feet allowances,
tax lots and points of diversion or appropriation;
(b) A copy of the deed showing that the applicant is an owner of the land;
(c) An affidavit certifying that the water right has not been conveyed or withheld;
Enrolled House Bill 3544 (HB 3544-C) Page 10
(d) A statement by the applicant that the most  recent water use under the permit, if any, has
been exercised within relevant terms and conditions of the permit; and
(e)(A) Agreements to the assignment  and to the request for the issuance of replacement water
right permits submitted jointly or individually by all owners of the land  to which the water right is
appurtenant; or
(B) An assignment of interest and request for the issuance of  replacement water right permits
submitted by one or more of the owners  of land to which the water right is appurtenant and infor-
mation identifying  the names, addresses and proportionate interests for those owners not submitting
the assignment and request.
(2) In addition to the application contents described in subsection (1) of  this section, the de-
partment may require that the applicant provide  any additional information the department deems
appropriate to determining whether to approve the application.
(3) Upon receiving an  application under subsection (1) of this section, the department shall de-
termine and notify the applicant of the fees payable under ORS 536.050 for processing the  applica-
tion. Upon receipt of the appropriate processing fees, the department shall:
(a) Verify the address of  each owner of the lands identified on the map contained in the appli-
cation;
(b) Verify that the deed supplied with the application matches  the property proposed for as-
signment;
(c) Prepare a statement that the proposed replacement water right permits will not result  in the
enlargement of the original water  right, a proposed final order and drafts of replacement water right
permits;
(d) No later than one week prior to the date of the weekly notice described in paragraph (e)  of
this subsection, mail  copies of the application, the map, the existing water right permit, the proposed
final order and  the draft replacement water right permits to each owner of land to which the ex-
isting water right is appurtenant; and
(e) Provide public notice of the application in the weekly notice published by the department.
(4) The department  shall allow comment on the application for 30 days following public notice
of the  application in the weekly notice published by the department. Any protest against the pro-
posed final order must be submitted no later than 45 days after the  date of the weekly notice pub-
lished by the department. [ A protest must be filed in the manner provided in ORS 537.227. ]
(5) The provisions  of sections 2 and 3 of this 2025 Act, and rules adopted thereunder,
apply to  a contested case proceeding on a proposed final order issued under this section,
except that the issues raised in a protest must directly  pertain to whether the proposed re-
placement water right permits are authorized under and in conformance with this section.
[(5)] (6) If the department determines that an application under subsection (1) of this section  to
assign all or part of a  water right permit has been properly filed, and that the issuance of replace-
ment water right permits will  not result in the enlargement of the original water right or otherwise
cause injury to other water right holders, the  department shall issue one or more replacement water
right permits to reflect the assignment. The replacement water right permits:
(a) Must have the same conditions as the replaced water  right permit, including but not limited
to priority date, source of water and type of use;
(b) May not add or change a point of diversion or point of appropriation;
(c) May not result in the enlargement of the water use authorized under  the replaced water
right permit;
(d) Must apportion the rate, and if applicable the duty, in proportion to the amount of land to
which the water right is appurtenant; and
(e) Must identify the  land to which the replacement water right permit is appurtenant and the
owner of that land.
[(6)] (7)  This section does not apply to municipal or quasi-municipal  permits or to permits held
by a unit of local government, including but not limited to permits  held by a port or water authority
Enrolled House Bill 3544 (HB 3544-C) Page 11
or a district. As used in this subsection, “unit of  local government” has the meaning given that term
in ORS 190.003 and “district” has the meaning given that term in ORS 540.505.
SECTION 9.  ORS 537.227 is amended to read:
537.227. [(1) A record landowner, an assignee, an affected water right  permit holder or other in-
terested person may protest a  Water Resources Department proposed final order for a water right as-
signment under ORS 537.225. The protest must be in writing and received by the department  within
the time provided under ORS 537.225 (4). The protest must be accompanied  by the protest fee required
under ORS 536.050 and include: ]
[(a) The name, address and telephone number of the person filing the protest; and ]
[(b) A detailed explanation of why the proposed order does not conform  with the criteria for a
water right  permit assignment and a description of the changes to the order that are necessary to cor-
rect the nonconformity. ]
[(2) A protest must identify all issues the person wishes to raise that are reasonably  ascertainable
at the time the protest is filed. The issues must directly pertain to  whether the proposed replacement
water right permits are authorized under and in conformance with ORS 537.225. ]
[(3)] (1) In  addition to any other authority the Water Resources Department may have,
if a protest  is properly filed, the department may work with the applicant for the water right as-
signment and the person filing the protest to determine whether the issues raised  by the protest can
be resolved informally. [ The department may: ]
[(a) Reissue a proposed final order; ]
[(b) Issue a final order; or ]
[(c) Refer the matter for a contested case hearing. ]
[(4) If the department is unable to resolve the issues informally and refers the matter  for a con-
tested case hearing, the issues properly  before the administrative law judge are limited to whether the
proposed replacement  water right permits are authorized under and in conformance with ORS 537.225.
Any unraised issue that was reasonably ascertainable  at the time the protest was filed and any argu-
ment not raised in the protest with sufficient specificity to afford the department an opportunity for
response is not subject to review at the contested case hearing. ]
[(5)] (2) Notwithstanding ORS 183.310,  and sections 2 and 3 of this 2025 Act,  the parties to  a
contested case hearing held under this section are limited to:
(a) The applicant for the water right assignment; and
(b) Persons that timely filed a protest against the proposed order under ORS 537.225 (4).
SECTION 10.
 ORS 537.295 is amended to read:
537.295. (1) If the holder of a permit to appropriate water for hydroelectric purposes under this
chapter fails, after receiving notice under ORS 537.289 (2), to amend  the joint agreement so the
holder continues to qualify as a municipal applicant, or if the holder  of the permit has assigned
ownership of the permit to an entity other than a municipal corporation or district,  the Water Re-
sources Commission shall initiate proceedings to cancel the permit.
[(2) A proceeding to cancel a permit under subsection (1) of this section  shall be conducted ac-
cording to the provisions under ORS chapter 183 for a contested case hearing. ]
(2) The provisions of sections 2 and 3 of this 2025 Act, and rules  adopted thereunder,
apply to a contested case proceeding on a proposed final order issued under this section.
SECTION 11.  ORS 537.297 is amended to read:
537.297. (1) If the owner of a certificate to appropriate water for hydroelectric purposes  under
this chapter fails, after receiving  notice under ORS 537.289 (2), to amend the joint agreement so the
owner continues  to qualify as a municipal applicant, or if the holder of the certificate has assigned
ownership of the certificate to an entity other than a municipal corporation or district,  the Water
Resources Commission shall initiate proceedings to cancel the certificate.
[(2) A proceeding to cancel a  certificate under subsection (1) of this section shall be conducted ac-
cording to the provisions under ORS chapter 183 for a contested case hearing. ]
(2) The provisions  of sections 2 and 3 of this 2025 Act, and rules adopted thereunder,
apply to a contested case proceeding on a proposed final order issued under this section.
Enrolled House Bill 3544 (HB 3544-C) Page 12
SECTION 12.  ORS 537.409 is amended to read:
537.409. (1) In lieu of the process set  forth in ORS 537.140 to 537.211 for applying for a water
right permit, an owner of a reservoir may submit  an application to the Water Resources Department
to issue a water right permit under ORS 537.211 or a  certificate under ORS 537.250 according to the
process set forth in this section if the reservoir:
(a) Has a storage capacity of less  than 9.2 acre-feet or a dam or impoundment structure less
than 10 feet in height;
(b) Does not injure any existing water right;
(c) Does not pose a significant detrimental impact to existing fishery resources as determined
on the basis of information submitted by the State Department of Fish and Wildlife; and
(d) Is not prohibited under ORS 390.835.
(2) An application for a water right permit for a reservoir under  subsection (1) of this section
shall provide sufficient information to demonstrate compliance  with the criteria set forth in sub-
section (1) of this section. The application shall:
(a) Include the quantity of water to be stored by the reservoir, a map indicating  the location
of the reservoir and the source of the water used to fill the reservoir; and
(b) Be accompanied by the fee established in ORS 536.050 (1)(q).
(3) The map required under subsection (2) of this  section need not be prepared by a water right
examiner certified under ORS 537.798. The map submitted with the application  shall comply with
standards established by the Water Resources Commission.
(4) Within 60 days after receiving an application under subsection (1) of  this section, the Water
Resources  Department  shall provide public notice of the application in the manner the department
determines to be the most appropriate.
(5) Within 60 days after the department provides public notice  under subsection (4) of this sec-
tion, any person  may submit detailed, legally obtained information in writing, requesting the de-
partment to deny the application for a permit on the basis that the reservoir:
(a) Would result in injury to an existing water right; or
(b) Would pose a significant detrimental impact to existing fishery resources.
(6) In accordance with rules established by the Water  Resources Commission for an expedited
public interest review  process for applications submitted under this section or in response to a re-
quest under subsection (5) of this section, the department shall conduct  a public interest review of
the reservoir application. The review shall be limited to issues pertaining to:
(a) Water availability;
(b) Potential detrimental impact to existing fishery resources; and
(c) Potential injury to existing water rights.
(7) Within 180 days after the  department receives an application for a permit under subsection
(1) of this section, the department shall issue a final order granting or denying the  permit or
granting the permit with conditions.
(8) If the department issues an order under subsection (7) of this section denying the  permit, the
applicant may request a contested case hearing, which shall be conducted in accordance with ap-
plicable provisions of ORS chapter 183 , sections 2 and 3 of this 2025 Act and rules adopted
thereunder. The status of an order issued under subsection (7) of this section and for  which
an applicant has requested a contested case hearing is a proposed final order.
(9) If the department does not find injury or impact under subsection (6) of  this section and the
department issues a final order under subsection (7) of this section allowing the issuance of a permit,
the order shall be subject to judicial review  of orders in other than contested cases as provided in
ORS chapter 183.
(10) Notwithstanding the requirement for a survey under ORS 537.230,  a survey of the appro-
priation is not required for a reservoir that has a storage capacity of less than 9.2 acre-feet of water.
For a reservoir qualifying under  this subsection, a permittee shall submit to the department a claim
of beneficial  use within one year after the date of completion of construction. A claim of beneficial
Enrolled House Bill 3544 (HB 3544-C) Page 13
use for a reservoir qualifying under this subsection  shall require only a written affidavit signed by
the permittee that includes the following:
(a) The dimensions of the reservoir.
(b) The maximum capacity of the reservoir in acre-feet.
(c) A  map identifying the location of the reservoir. The map shall comply with standards estab-
lished by the Water Resources Commission. The map required under this subsection need  not be
prepared by a water right examiner certified under ORS 537.798.
(11) Any  person applying for a secondary permit for the use of stored water from a reservoir
qualifying under subsection (10) of this section shall submit a survey prepared by  a water right ex-
aminer certified under ORS 537.798. The  survey required under this subsection shall apply to the
storage reservoir and to the secondary use of the water in the reservoir.
SECTION 13.
 ORS 537.420 is amended to read:
537.420. Whenever a permit  holder fails to comply with the laws of the state and the require-
ments of the permit as  to the commencement of work with due diligence, completion of the work
of construction or the application of the water for a beneficial use, and the permit is  subject to
cancellation as provided in ORS  537.410 to 537.450, the Water Resources Commission shall[ , not less
than 30  nor more than 60 days prior to the hearing provided for in ORS 537.445, notify each person
who, according to Water Resources  department records, is the holder of a water right permit or cer-
tificate whose right may be injured by the proposed cancellation. The notice shall require  the holder
of the permit to appear before the  commission at the time and place designated in the notice, and show
cause why  the permit described in the notice should not be canceled for the reasons therein specified.
The notice  shall contain a brief statement of the grounds for cancellation and shall be served in ac-
cordance with ORS 183.415. ] issue  a proposed final order canceling the permit and serve notice
of the proposed final order, in accordance with ORS 183.415, on the holder of the permit that
is proposed for cancellation and on each person who, according to Water  Resources Depart-
ment records, is the holder of a water right permit or certificate whose right may be  injured
by the proposed cancellation. The notice shall provide a period of 60 days from the date  of
the mailing of the notice within which to protest the proposed cancellation of the permit.
SECTION 14.  ORS 537.445 is amended to read:
537.445. [(1) If the Water Resources Commission proposes  to cancel a permit or appropriation un-
der ORS 537.410  to 537.450, opportunity for  hearing shall be accorded as provided in ORS chapter
183.]
(1) The provisions  of sections 2 and 3 of this 2025 Act, and rules adopted thereunder,
apply to a contested case  proceeding on a proposed final order issued under ORS 537.410 to
537.450.
(2) If a petition for review of an order canceling a permit or  appropriation is filed under ORS
536.075, the Water Resources  Commission [ shall] may not cancel the permit or appropriation under
ORS 537.440 until the petitioner’s right of review is exhausted and the order is finally approved.
SECTION 15.  ORS 537.470 is amended to read:
537.470. (1) Upon receipt  of an application for allocation of conserved water under ORS 537.465,
the Water Resources Commission shall give notice of  receipt of the application in accordance with
ORS 540.520 (5).
(2) The commission  shall allocate conserved water as provided in subsection (3) of this section
and approve modifications of water rights  as provided in subsection [ (6)] (7) of this section. The
commission may not  allocate conserved water pursuant to an application under ORS 537.465 if the
application is filed more than five years after the conservation measure was implemented.
(3) After determining the quantity  of conserved water, if any, required to mitigate the effects
on other water  rights, the commission shall allocate 25 percent of the remaining conserved water
to the state and 75 percent to the applicant, unless the applicant  proposes a higher allocation to the
state or more than 25 percent of  the funds used to finance the conservation measures comes from
federal or state public sources.  If more than 25 percent of the funds used to finance the conservation
measures comes from federal or state public sources and is not subject to repayment, the commission
Enrolled House Bill 3544 (HB 3544-C) Page 14
shall allocate to the state a percentage equal to the percentage of public funds used  to finance the
conservation measures and allocate to the applicant a percentage equal  to the percentage of other
funds used to finance the conservation measures. If the commission  determines that the water allo-
cated to the state is necessary to support in-stream flow purposes  in accordance with ORS 537.332
to 537.360, the water shall be converted to an in-stream  water right. If the water allocated to the
state is not necessary to  support in-stream flow purposes, it shall revert to the public for appropri-
ation by the next user in priority.  In no event, however, shall the applicant receive less than 25
percent of the remaining  conserved water unless the applicant proposes a higher allocation to the
state.
[(4) The commission shall notify the applicant and any other person requesting notice, of  the action
the commission intends to take under subsection (3) of this section. Any person objecting  to the pro-
posed allocation may file a protest requesting a contested case hearing before the commission. ]
(4) The commission shall:
(a) Issue a proposed final order on the application.
(b) Serve the proposed final order in accordance with ORS 183.415.
(c) Provide notice of the proposed final order to any other person requesting notice.
(5) The provisions of sections 2 and 3 of this 2025 Act, and rules  adopted thereunder,
apply to a contested case proceeding on a proposed final order issued under this section.
[(5)] (6) The modification of water rights under an allocation of conserved water may not require
a separate request for transfer under ORS 540.520.
[(6)] (7) After the commission completes the  allocation of conserved water under subsection (3)
of this section, the commission shall issue orders for proposed new  certificates covering the changes
in the original water rights.  Once the conservation project is completed, separate new certificates
preserving the previously  established priority of rights shall be issued to cover the unaffected por-
tion of the water  rights and separate new certificates indicating the priority of rights as set forth
in ORS 537.485 shall be issued to cover the right to the use of the allocated water.
SECTION 16.
 ORS 537.621 is amended to read:
537.621. (1) Within 60 days after the Water Resources Department proceeds with the application
under ORS 537.620 (5), the department shall complete application review and issue a proposed  final
order approving or denying the application or approving the  application with modifications or con-
ditions. The department may request the applicant to provide additional information needed  to
complete the review. If the department  requests additional information, the request shall be specific
and shall be sent to the applicant by registered mail. The department shall specify a date  by which
the information must be returned, which shall be not less than 10 days after the department mails
the request to the applicant.  If the department does not receive the information or a request for a
time extension under ORS 537.627 by the date  specified in the request, the department may reject
the application and may refund fees in accordance  with ORS 536.050 (4)(a). The time period specified
by the department in a request for additional information shall allow the department  to comply with
the 60-day time limit established by this subsection.
(2) In reviewing the  application under subsection (1) of this section, the department shall de-
termine whether the proposed use will ensure the preservation of the public  welfare, safety and
health as described in ORS 537.525.  The department shall presume that a proposed use will ensure
the preservation of the public welfare, safety and health if the proposed use is allowed  in the ap-
plicable basin program established pursuant to ORS 536.300 and 536.340 or given  a preference under
ORS 536.310 (12), if water is available, if the proposed use will not injure other  water rights and if
the proposed use complies with rules of the Water Resources Commission.  This shall be a rebuttable
presumption and may be overcome by a preponderance of evidence that either:
(a) One or more of the criteria for establishing the presumption are not satisfied; or
(b) The proposed use would not ensure the preservation  of the public welfare, safety and health
as demonstrated in comments, in a protest under [ subsection (7) of this ] section 3 of this  2025 Act
or in a finding of the department that shows:
Enrolled House Bill 3544 (HB 3544-C) Page 15
(A) The specific aspect of the public welfare,  safety and health under ORS 537.525 that would
be impaired or detrimentally affected; and
(B) Specifically  how the identified aspect of the public welfare, safety and health under ORS
537.525 would be impaired or be adversely affected.
(3) The proposed final order shall cite findings of fact and conclusions  of law and shall include
but need not be limited to:
(a) Confirmation or modification of the preliminary determinations made in the initial review;
(b) A brief statement that explains the  criteria considered relevant to the decision, including the
applicable basin program and the compatibility of the proposed use with applicable land use plans;
(c) An assessment of water availability and the amount of water necessary for the  proposed use;
(d) An assessment of whether the proposed use would result in injury to existing water rights;
(e) An assessment of whether  the proposed use would ensure the preservation of the public
welfare, safety and health as described in ORS 537.525;
(f) A draft permit, including any proposed conditions, or a recommendation to  deny the appli-
cation;
(g) Whether the  rebuttable presumption under subsection (2) of this section has been established;
(h) The date by which protests to the proposed final order must be received  by the department;
and
(i) The flow rate and duty of water allowed.
(4) In establishing the flow rate and  duty of water allowed, the department may consider a
general basin-wide standard, but first shall evaluate information submitted by the applicant to dem-
onstrate the need for a flow rate and  duty higher than the general standard. If the applicant pro-
vides such information,  the department shall authorize the requested rate and duty except upon
specific findings related to the application to support a determination that  a lesser amount is
needed. If the applicant does not provide information to  demonstrate the need for a flow rate and
duty higher than the general basin-wide  standard, the department may apply the general standards
without specific findings related to the application.
(5) The department shall mail copies of  the proposed final order to the applicant and to persons
who have requested copies and paid the fee required under ORS  536.050 (1)(p). The department also
shall publish notice of  the proposed final order by publication in the weekly notice published by the
department.
[(6) Any person who  supports a proposed final order may request standing for purposes of partic-
ipating in any contested case proceeding on the proposed final order or for judicial  review of a final
order. A request for standing shall  be in writing and shall be accompanied by the fee established under
ORS 536.050 (1)(n). ]
[(7) Any person may submit a protest against  a proposed final order. A protest shall be in writing
and shall include: ]
[(a) The name, address and telephone number of the protestant; ]
[(b) A description  of the protestant’s interest in the proposed final order, and if the protestant
claims to represent the public interest, a precise statement of the public interest represented; ]
[(c) A detailed description of how the action proposed in  the proposed final order would impair
or be detrimental to the protestant’s interest; ]
[(d) A detailed description of how the  proposed final order is in error or deficient and how to
correct the alleged error or deficiency; ]
[(e) Any citation of legal authority supporting the protest, if known; and ]
[(f) The protest fee required under ORS 536.050. ]
(6) The provisions  of sections 2 and 3 of this 2025 Act, and rules adopted thereunder,
apply to a contested case proceeding on a proposed final order issued under this section.
[(8)] (7) [ Requests for standing and protests on the proposed final order shall be submitted within
45 days  after publication of the notice of the proposed final order in the weekly notice published by the
department.] Any person who asks to  receive a copy of the department’s final order shall submit to
the department the  fee required under ORS 536.050 (1)(p), unless the person has previously requested
Enrolled House Bill 3544 (HB 3544-C) Page 16
copies and paid the required fee under ORS 537.620 (7), the person is a protestant and  has paid the
fee required under ORS 536.050 (1)(j) or the person has [ standing] requested party  status  and has
paid the fee under ORS 536.050 (1)(n)  and (o) .
[(9)] (8)  Within 60 days  after the close of the period for receiving protests,  if a timely protest
was submitted,  the Water Resources Director shall:
(a) Issue  a final order as provided under ORS 537.625 (1) , if the applicant has not filed a
protest and the  director finds that there are no significant issues related to the proposed
use of water ; [ or]
(b) Schedule a contested case hearing if a protest has been submitted ; or  [ and if: ]
(c) Provide any person who timely submitted a protest or request for  party status with
an estimate of the timing of referring the case  to the Office of Administrative Hearings for
a hearing and notice that parties may provide settlement proposals.
[(A) Upon review of the issues, the director finds  that there are significant disputes related to the
proposed use of water; or ]
[(B) Within 30 days after the close  of the period for submitting protests, the applicant requests a
contested case hearing. ]
SECTION 16a. If House Bill 3342 becomes law, section 33, chapter 282, Oregon  Laws 2025
(Enrolled House Bill 3342) (amending  ORS 537.621), is repealed and ORS 537.621, as amended
by section 16 of this 2025 Act, is amended to read:
537.621. (1) Within 60 days after the Water Resources Department proceeds with the application
under ORS 537.620 (5) (c), the department shall complete application review and issue a  proposed
final order approving or denying the application or approving the application with  modifications or
conditions. The department may request the applicant to provide additional information  needed to
complete the review. If the department  requests additional information, the request shall be specific
and shall be sent to the applicant by registered mail. The department shall specify a date  by which
the information must be returned, which shall be not less than 10 days after the department mails
the request to the applicant. If the department does not receive the information or  a request for a
time extension under ORS 537.627 by the date specified  in the request, the department may reject
the application and may refund fees in accordance  with ORS 536.050 (4)(a). The time period specified
by the department in a request for additional information shall allow the department  to comply with
the 60-day time limit established by this subsection.
(2) In reviewing the application under subsection (1) of this section, the  department shall de-
termine whether the proposed  use will ensure the preservation of the public welfare, safety and
health as described in ORS 537.525. The department shall presume that  a proposed use will ensure
the preservation of the  public welfare, safety and health if the proposed use is allowed in the ap-
plicable basin program established pursuant to ORS 536.300 and 536.340 or given  a preference under
ORS 536.310 (12), if water  is available, if the proposed use will not injure other water rights and if
the proposed use complies with rules of the Water Resources Commission.  This shall be a rebuttable
presumption and may be overcome by a preponderance of evidence that either:
(a) One or more of the criteria for establishing the presumption are not satisfied; or
(b) The proposed use would not ensure the preservation  of the public welfare, safety and health
as demonstrated in comments, in a protest  under section 3 of this 2025 Act or in a finding of the
department that shows:
(A) The specific aspect of the public welfare, safety  and health under ORS 537.525 that would
be impaired or detrimentally affected; and
(B) Specifically how the identified aspect of the public welfare, safety and health under  ORS
537.525 would be impaired or be adversely affected.
(3) The proposed final order shall  cite findings of fact and conclusions of law and shall include
but need not be limited to:
(a) Confirmation or modification of the preliminary determinations made in the initial review;
(b) A brief statement that explains the  criteria considered relevant to the decision, including the
applicable basin program and the compatibility of the proposed use with applicable land use plans;
Enrolled House Bill 3544 (HB 3544-C) Page 17
(c) An assessment of water availability and the amount of water necessary for the  proposed use;
(d) An assessment of whether the proposed use would result in injury to existing water rights;
(e) An assessment of whether  the proposed use would ensure the preservation of the public
welfare, safety and health as described in ORS 537.525;
(f) A draft permit, including any proposed conditions, or a recommendation to  deny the appli-
cation;
(g) Whether the  rebuttable presumption under subsection (2) of this section has been established;
(h) The date by which protests to the proposed final order must be received  by the department;
and
(i) The flow rate and duty of water allowed.
(4) In establishing the flow rate and  duty of water allowed, the department may consider a
general basin-wide standard, but first shall evaluate information submitted by the applicant to dem-
onstrate the need for a flow rate and  duty higher than the general standard. If the applicant pro-
vides such information,  the department shall authorize the requested rate and duty except upon
specific findings related to the application to support a determination that  a lesser amount is
needed. If the applicant does not provide information to  demonstrate the need for a flow rate and
duty higher than the general basin-wide  standard, the department may apply the general standards
without specific findings related to the application.
(5) The department shall mail copies of  the proposed final order to the applicant and to persons
who have requested copies and paid the fee required under ORS  536.050 (1)(p). The department also
shall publish notice  of the proposed final order by publication in the weekly public notice published
by the department.
(6) The provisions of sections 2 and 3 of this 2025 Act, and rules adopted thereunder,  apply to
a contested case proceeding on a proposed final order issued under this section.
(7) Any person who asks to receive a copy of  the department’s final order shall submit to the
department the fee required under ORS 536.050 (1)(p),  unless the person has previously requested
copies and paid the required fee under ORS 537.620 (7), the person is a protestant and  has paid the
fee required under ORS 536.050 (1)(j) or the person has requested party status and has paid the  fee
under ORS 536.050 (1)(n) and (o).
(8) Within 60 days after the close of the period for receiving protests, if a timely  protest was
submitted, the Water Resources Director shall:
(a) Issue a final  order as provided under ORS 537.625 (1), if the applicant has not filed a protest
and the director finds that there are no significant issues related to the proposed use of water;
(b) Schedule a contested case hearing if a protest has been submitted; or
(c) Provide any person who timely submitted a protest or request for  party status with an esti-
mate of the timing  of referring the case to the Office of Administrative Hearings for a hearing and
notice that parties may provide settlement proposals.
SECTION 16b.
 If House Bill 3342 becomes law, section 33a, chapter 282,  Oregon Laws 2025
(Enrolled House Bill 3342), is amended to read:
Sec. 33a.  The amendments to ORS 537.153 and 537.621 by  sections [ 32 and 33 of this 2025 Act ]
5a and 16a of this 2025 Act  apply to requests  for standing on proposed final orders issued on or
after the operative date specified in section 48 [ of this 2025 Act ], chapter 282, Oregon Laws 2025
(Enrolled House Bill 3342).
SECTION 17.  ORS 537.622 is amended to read:
537.622. [(1) Within 45  days after the Water Resources Director schedules a contested case hearing
under ORS 537.621 (9), the Water Resources  Department shall hold the contested case hearing. The
issues to be considered in the contested case hearing shall be limited  to issues identified by the ad-
ministrative law judge. ]
[(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of ORS chapter 183  pertaining to contested case proceedings,
the parties to any contested case hearing initiated under this section shall be limited to: ]
[(a) The applicant; ]
[(b) Any person who timely filed a protest; and ]
Enrolled House Bill 3544 (HB 3544-C) Page 18
[(c) Any person who timely filed a request for standing under ORS 537.621 (6) and  who requests
to intervene in the contested case hearing prior to the start of the proceeding. ]
[(3) The ] A contested case proceeding under ORS 537.621 (8)  [ proceeding] shall be conducted
in accordance with the  applicable provisions of ORS chapter 183  and sections 2 and 3 of this 2025
Act,  except[ :]
[(a) As provided in subsections (1) and (2) of this section; and ]
[(b)] that  an interlocutory appeal under ORS 183.480 (3) [ shall not be ] is not  allowed.
[(4) Each person submitting a protest or a request for standing shall raise  all reasonably
ascertainable issues  and submit all reasonably available arguments supporting the person’s position
by the close of the protest period. Failure to raise a reasonably ascertainable issue in a protest or in
a hearing or failure  to provide sufficient specificity to afford the Water Resources Department an op-
portunity to respond to the issue precludes judicial review based on that issue. ]
SECTION 18.
 ORS 537.625 is amended to read:
537.625. (1) If, after the contested case hearing or, if a hearing is not held, after the close of the
period allowed to file a protest, the Water Resources  Director determines that the proposed use
that is the subject of an application filed  under ORS 537.615  does not ensure the preservation
of the public welfare, safety and health as described in ORS 537.525, the director  shall issue a final
order rejecting the application or modifying the proposed  final order as necessary to ensure the
preservation of the public  welfare, safety and health as described in ORS 537.525. If, after the
contested case hearing or, if a hearing is not held, after the close of the period allowed to  file a
protest, the director determines that the proposed use would ensure the preservation of the public
welfare, safety and health as described in ORS 537.525, the director shall issue a final  order ap-
proving the application or otherwise  modifying the proposed final order. A final order may set forth
any of the provisions or restrictions to be included in the permit concerning the use,  control and
management of the water to be appropriated for the project.
[(2) If a contested case hearing is not held: ]
[(a) Where  the final order modifies the proposed final order, the applicant may request and the
Water Resources Department shall schedule a contested case hearing as provided  under ORS 537.622
(3) by submitting the information required for a protest under ORS 537.621 (7) within  14 days after the
director issues the final order. However, the issues on which  a contested case hearing may be requested
and conducted under this paragraph shall be limited to issues based  on the modifications to the pro-
posed final order. ]
[(b) Only the  applicant or a protestant may appeal the provisions of the final order in the manner
established in ORS chapter 183 for appeal of order other than contested cases. ]
(2) If a contested case hearing is not held under ORS 537.621 (8)(a) where  the final order
modifies the proposed final order, the applicant, a person that requested party  status or a
protestant may submit a protest under section 2 or 3 of this 2025 Act within  14 days after
the director issues the final order, except that the issues on which a  contested case hearing
may be requested and conducted under this subsection are  limited to issues that are based
on the modifications to the proposed final order. The Water Resources Department must
hold a hearing if the protestant is an applicant.
(3) If a  protest is filed by a person other than the applicant and, as provided in ORS
537.621 (8)(a), the director issues a final order  without holding a contested case hearing, a
protestant may appeal the provisions of the final order in the manner  established in ORS
chapter 183 for appeal of orders in other than contested cases.
[(3)] (4)  If the presumption of public welfare, safety and health under  ORS 537.621 (2) is over-
come, then before issuing a final  order, the director or the Water Resources Commission, if appli-
cable, shall make the final determination of whether the proposed use or the proposed use  as
modified in the proposed final  order would preserve the public welfare, safety and health as de-
scribed in ORS 537.525 by considering:
(a) The conservation of the highest use of the water for all purposes, including  irrigation, do-
mestic use, municipal water supply, power development, public recreation,  protection of commercial
Enrolled House Bill 3544 (HB 3544-C) Page 19
and game fishing and wildlife,  fire protection, mining, industrial purposes, navigation, scenic at-
traction or any other beneficial use to which the water may be applied  for which it may have a
special value to the public.
(b) The maximum economic development of the waters involved.
(c) The control of the  waters of this state for all beneficial purposes, including drainage, sani-
tation and flood control.
(d) The amount of waters available for appropriation for beneficial use.
(e) The prevention of wasteful,  uneconomic, impracticable or unreasonable use of the waters
involved.
(f) All vested and  inchoate rights to the waters of this state or to the use of the waters of this
state, and the means necessary to protect such rights.
(g) The state water resources policy.
[(4)] (5) Upon issuing a final order, the [ Water Resources ] department shall notify the applicant
and each person who submitted written comments or protests or otherwise requested notice  of the
final order and send a copy of the final order to any person who requested a copy and paid  the fee
required under ORS 536.050 (1)(p).
[(5)] (6) A right to appropriate ground water under a permit has a  priority from the date when
the application was filed with the department.
[(6)] (7) If the use  of water under the permit is for operation of a mining operation as defined
in ORS 517.952:
(a) Review of the application and approval or denial of the  application shall be coordinated with
the consolidated application process under ORS 517.952 to 517.989. However, such review  and ap-
proval  or  denial shall take into consideration all policy considerations for the appropriation of water
as set forth in this chapter and ORS chapter 536.
(b) The permit may be issued for  exploration under ORS 517.702 to 517.740, but the permit shall
be conditioned on the applicant’s compliance with the consolidated application process.
(c) The permit shall include a  condition that additional conditions may be added to the use of
water when a water right certificate is  issued, or when the use of water is changed pursuant to ORS
540.520 and 540.530 to use for a mining operation.
SECTION 19.
 ORS 537.628 is amended to read:
537.628. (1) The Water Resources  Department may approve an application for less ground water
than applied for or upon  terms, conditions and limitations necessary for the protection of the public
welfare, safety and health.
(2) In any event the department [ shall] may not approve the application for more ground water
than is applied for or than can be applied to a beneficial use.
(3) [ No application shall be approved when the  same will deprive ] The department may not
approve an application that  deprives those having prior rights of appropriation for a beneficial
use of the amount of water to which they are lawfully entitled.
[(2) If a contested case hearing is held, the department shall issue a final order: ]
[(a) Within 270 days after scheduling the  hearing for a contested case proceeding that involves
three or more parties not including the department; and ]
[(b) Within 180 days after scheduling the hearing for all other contested case proceedings. ]
SECTION 20.  ORS 540.520 is amended to read:
540.520. (1)(a) Except  when the application is made under ORS 541.327 or when an application
for a temporary transfer  is made under ORS 540.523, if the holder of a water use subject to transfer
for irrigation, domestic use, manufacturing purposes, or other use, for any  reason desires to change
the place of use, the point of diversion, or the use made  of the water, an application to make such
change, as the case may be, shall be filed with the Water Resources Department.
(b) A holder of a water right certificate that authorizes the storage of water may change the
type of use identified in the water right certificate, as described in this section.
(2) The application required under subsection (1) of this section shall include:
(a) The name of the owner;
Enrolled House Bill 3544 (HB 3544-C) Page 20
(b) The previous use of the water;
(c) A description of the premises upon which the water is used;
(d) A description of the premises upon which it is proposed to use the water;
(e) The use that is proposed to be made of the water;
(f) The reasons for making the proposed change; and
(g) Evidence that the water has been used over the  past five years according to the terms and
conditions of the owner’s water right certificate or that the water right  is not subject to forfeiture
under ORS 540.610.
(3) If the application required under subsection (1) of this  section is necessary to allow a change
in a water right pursuant to  ORS 537.348, is necessary to complete a project funded under ORS
541.932, or is approved by the State Department of Fish  and Wildlife as a change that will result in
a net benefit to fish  and wildlife habitat, the department, at the discretion of the Water Resources
Director, may waive or assist the applicant in satisfying the requirements of  subsection (2)(c) and
(d) of this section. The assistance provided by the department may include, but  need not be limited
to, development of an application map.
(4) If the application is to change the point of diversion, the transfer shall include a condition
that the holder of the water right provide a proper fish  screen at the new point of diversion, if re-
quested by the State Department of Fish and Wildlife.
(5) Upon the filing of the application the department shall give notice by  publication in a
newspaper having general circulation in the area in which the water rights are  located, for a period
of at least two weeks and not less than one  publication each week. The notice shall include the date
on which the last notice by publication will occur. The cost of the publication  shall be paid by the
applicant in advance to the department.  In applications for only a change in place of use or for a
change in the point of diversion of less than one-fourth mile, and where there are  no intervening
diversions  between  the old diversion of the applicant and the proposed new diversion, no newspaper
notice need be published. The department shall include notice of such  applications in the weekly
notice published by the department.
[(6) Within 30 days after the last publication of a newspaper  notice of the proposed transfer or the
mailing of the department’s weekly notice, whichever is later, any person may file, jointly  or severally,
with the department, a protest against approval of the application. ]
(6) The department shall  issue a proposed final order approving or denying the applica-
tion or approving  the application with modifications or conditions. Within 30 days after the
publication in the department’s weekly public notice any person  may file a protest against
the proposed final order.
(7) The provisions of sections 2 and 3 of this 2025 Act, and rules  adopted thereunder,
apply to a contested case proceeding on a proposed final order issued under this section.
[(7)] (8) If [ a timely protest is filed, or ] in the opinion of the Water Resources Director a hearing
is necessary to determine whether the proposed changes as described by the application  would re-
sult in injury to existing water rights, the department shall hold a hearing on the matter.  [ Notice
and conduct of the hearing  shall be under the provisions of ORS chapter 183, pertaining to contested
cases, and shall be held in the area where the  rights are located unless all parties and persons who
filed a protest under this subsection stipulate otherwise. ]
[(8)] (9)  An application for a change of use under  this section is not required if the beneficial
use authorized by the water use  subject to transfer is irrigation and the owner of the water right
uses the water for incidental agricultural, stock watering and other uses  related to irrigation use,
so long as there is no increase in the rate, duty, total acreage benefited or season of use.
[(9)] (10) A water right transfer under subsection (1) of this section is not  required for a general
industrial use that was not included in a water  right certificate issued for a specific industrial use
if:
(a) The quantity of  water used for the general industrial use is not greater than the rate allowed
in the original water right and not greater than the quantity of water  diverted to satisfy the au-
thorized specific use under the original water right;
Enrolled House Bill 3544 (HB 3544-C) Page 21
(b) The location where the water is  to be used for general industrial use was owned by the
holder of the original water right at the time the water right permit was issued; and
(c) The person who makes the change in  water use provides the following information to the
Water Resources Department:
(A) The name and mailing address of the person using water under the water right;
(B) The water right certificate number;
(C) A description of  the location of the industrial facility owned by the holder of the original
water right at the time the water right permit was issued; and
(D) A description of the general industrial use to be made of the water after the change.
SECTION 20a.
If House Bill 3342 becomes law, section 5, chapter 282, Oregon Laws 2025
(Enrolled House Bill 3342) (amending  ORS 540.520), is repealed and ORS 540.520, as amended
by section 20 of this 2025 Act, is amended to read:
540.520. (1)(a) Except  when the application is made under ORS 541.327 or when an application
for a temporary transfer  is made under ORS 540.523, if the holder of a water use subject to transfer
for irrigation, domestic use, manufacturing purposes, or other use, for any  reason desires to change
the place of use, the point of diversion, or the use made  of the water, an application to make such
change, as the case may be, shall be filed with the Water Resources Department.
(b) A holder of a water right certificate that authorizes the storage of water may change the
type of use identified in the water right certificate, as described in this section.
(2) The application required under subsection (1) of this section shall include:
(a) The name of the owner;
(b) The previous use of the water;
(c) A description of the premises upon which the water is used;
(d) A description of the premises upon which it is proposed to use the water;
(e) The use that is proposed to be made of the water;
(f) The reasons for making the proposed change; and
(g) Evidence that the water has been used over  the past five years according to the terms and
conditions of the owner’s water right  certificate or that the water right is not subject to forfeiture
under ORS 540.610.
(3) If the application required under subsection (1) of this  section is necessary to allow a change
in a water right pursuant to ORS 537.348, is necessary to complete  a project funded under ORS
541.932, or is approved by the State Department of Fish  and Wildlife as a change that will result in
a net benefit to fish and wildlife habitat, the Water Resources  Department, at the  discretion of the
Water Resources Director, may waive or assist the applicant  in satisfying the requirements of sub-
section (2)(c) and (d) of this section. The assistance  provided by the department may include, but
need not be limited to, development of an application map.
(4) If the application is to change the point of diversion, the transfer shall include a condition
that the holder of the water right provide a proper fish  screen at the new point of diversion, if re-
quested by the State Department of Fish and Wildlife.
[(5) Upon the filing of the application the department shall give notice by  publication in a news-
paper having general  circulation in the area in which the water rights are located, for a period of at
least two weeks and not less than one publication each week. The notice shall include the date on which
the last notice by publication will occur. The cost of the publication shall be paid  by the applicant in
advance to the department. In applications for only a change in place of use or for a  change in the
point of diversion of less than one-fourth mile,  and where there are no intervening diversions between
the old diversion of the applicant and the proposed new diversion,  no newspaper notice need be pub-
lished. The department shall include notice of such applications in the  weekly notice published by the
department.]
(5) The Water Resources  Department shall undertake an initial review of an application
under subsection (1) of this section.
(6)(a) Upon completion of the initial review,  the department shall notify the applicant of
its preliminary determinations, identify any outstanding information that is  necessary to
Enrolled House Bill 3544 (HB 3544-C) Page 22
continue processing the application and allow the  applicant 30 days from the date of notice
to:
(A) Notify the department to stop processing the application; or
(B) Notify the  department to continue processing the application and provide any out-
standing information to the department.
(b) If,  within 30 days from the date of the notice, the applicant does not notify the de-
partment as provided in paragraph (a) of this subsection, does not provide all  outstanding
information as provided in paragraph (a)(B) of this subsection  or notifies the department to
stop processing the application, the department shall close the file for the  application and
take no further action on the application.  The department may allow an applicant up to 60
additional days to provide outstanding information if the  applicant requests additional time
and the department determines that the applicant is undertaking reasonable efforts to  pro-
vide the information in a timely manner to the department.
(c) If, within 30 days  from the date of the notice or an additional time period allowed
under paragraph (b) of this subsection, the applicant notifies the department to  proceed with
the application and provides any outstanding information necessary  to continue processing
the application, the department shall:
(A) Proceed with processing the application.
(B) Give notice of the initial review in the  weekly public notice of the department and
accept written public comments for 30 days.
(7) Upon issuance of a proposed final order, the department shall give notice of the order
in the weekly public notice of the department. If  the department determines that more than
five water rights would be  injured as a result of the change proposed in an application under
subsection (1) of this section,  the department shall publish notice once each week for two
consecutive weeks in a newspaper of general  circulation in the area in which the water
rights are located. The cost of the publication shall be paid by the applicant  in advance to
the department.
[(6)] (8)  [ The department shall issue a proposed final order approving or denying the application
or approving the application with modifications or conditions. ] Within 30 days after the publication
in the department’s weekly public notice any person may file a protest against the proposed  final
order.
[(7)] (9) The provisions of sections 2 and 3 of this 2025 Act, and rules adopted thereunder, apply
to a contested case proceeding on a proposed final order issued under this section.
[(8)] (10) If in the opinion of the Water Resources Director a hearing is necessary  to determine
whether the proposed changes as described  by the application would result in injury to existing
water rights, the department shall hold a hearing on the matter.
[(9)] (11) An application for a change of use under  this section is not required if the beneficial
use authorized by the water use subject to transfer is irrigation and the  owner of the water right
uses the water for incidental  agricultural, stock watering and other uses related to irrigation use,
so long as there is no increase in the rate, duty, total acreage benefited or season of use.
[(10)] (12) A water right transfer  under subsection (1) of this section is not required for a gen-
eral industrial use that was not included in a water right certificate issued for a specific  industrial
use if:
(a) The quantity of  water used for the general industrial use is not greater than the rate allowed
in the original water right and  not greater than the quantity of water diverted to satisfy the au-
thorized specific use under the original water right;
(b) The location where the water is to be used for general  industrial use was owned by the
holder of the original water right at the time the water right permit was issued; and
(c) The person who makes the change in  water use provides the following information to the
Water Resources Department:
(A) The name and mailing address of the person using water under the water right;
(B) The water right certificate number;
Enrolled House Bill 3544 (HB 3544-C) Page 23
(C) A description of  the location of the industrial facility owned by the holder of the original
water right at the time the water right permit was issued; and
(D) A description of the general industrial use to be made of the water after the change.
SECTION 21.
 ORS 540.524 is amended to read:
540.524. (1) Notwithstanding ORS  540.510 or 540.670, upon approval of an application submitted
to the Water Resources Department, the holder of both  a primary water right originating from a
surface water source and a supplemental water right permit or certificate originating  from a ground
water source may substitute the use of the supplemental water right for the primary water right.
A substitution may not be made under this  subsection if the use of the supplemental water right
results in an enlargement or expansion of  the primary water right. This subsection does not au-
thorize a change in place of use, type of use, point of diversion or point of appropriation.
(2) An application required under subsection (1) of  this section shall be submitted on forms
provided by the department. The department may request additional information if necessary to
assist with the injury  evaluation. Each application shall be submitted with the fee described in ORS
536.050 (1)(s).
[(3) Upon receiving an application under subsection (1)  of this section, the department shall provide
notice, accept protests and conduct hearings on protests in the manner  described in ORS 540.520 (5),
(6) and (7). ]
(3) Upon receiving an application under subsection (1) of this section, the department
shall provide public notice and accept protests as described in ORS 540.520.
(4) The provisions  of sections 2 and 3 of this 2025 Act, and rules adopted thereunder,
apply to a contested case proceeding on a proposed final order issued under this section.
[(4)] (5)  The Water Resources Director shall issue [ an] a  proposed final  order approving or
denying the substitution. If the proposed substitution will result in injury  to other water rights, the
director shall prohibit or condition the use to avoid or mitigate the injury. The director shall  issue
[an] a proposed final  order approving or denying the substitution within 90 days after  the depart-
ment receives an application under subsection (1) of this section.
[(5)] (6)  For the purpose of ORS 540.610, a substituted primary surface water  right shall be
treated as a supplemental  water right, and a substituted supplemental ground water right shall be
treated as a primary water right.
[(6)] (7) A completed and approved substitution of a supplemental  ground water right for a pri-
mary surface water right under this section  may be terminated upon a request by the water right
holder or by an order of the director if the director determines that the use of the ground water
as the primary water right causes injury to other water rights. Upon termination, the substituted
primary and supplemental water rights shall revert back to their original status.
SECTION 21a.
If House Bill 3342 becomes law, section 39, chapter 282, Oregon  Laws 2025
(Enrolled House Bill 3342) (amending ORS 540.524), is repealed.
SECTION 21b.  If House Bill 3342 becomes law, section  30, chapter 282, Oregon Laws 2025
(Enrolled House Bill 3342), is amended to read:
Sec. 30.  Notwithstanding ORS 536.031 (1), sections 9, 24 and 29 [ of this  2025 Act ], chapter 282,
Oregon Laws 2025 (Enrolled House Bill  3342), and rules adopted thereunder, and the amendments
to ORS 536.045,  537.145, 537.150, 537.211, 537.252, 537.470, 537.610, 537.620, [540.520,] 540.535, 540.585,
543.220, by sections 2 to 4, 6,  7, 14, 17, 19, 20, 37  and 42 [ of this 2025 Act ], chapter 282, Oregon
Laws 2025 (Enrolled House Bill 3342) , and the amendments to ORS 540.520 by  section 20a of
this 2025 Act,  and rules adopted thereunder, apply to  applications and petitions submitted on or
after the operative date specified in  section 48 [ of this 2025 Act ], chapter 282, Oregon Laws 2025
(Enrolled House Bill 3342).
SECTION 21c.  If House Bill 3342 becomes law,  section 48, chapter 282, Oregon Laws 2025
(Enrolled House Bill 3342), is amended to read:
Sec. 48. (1) Sections 9, 13, 24, 29 and 31 [ of this 2025 Act ], chapter  282, Oregon Laws 2025
(Enrolled House Bill 3342),  and the amendments to ORS 536.045, 536.410, 537.145, 537.147, 537.150,
[537.153,] 537.211, 537.225, 537.230, 537.252, 537.348, 537.470, 537.610,  537.620, [ 537.621,] 537.630,
Enrolled House Bill 3544 (HB 3544-C) Page 24
538.450, [540.520, 540.524,] 540.535, 540.570, 540.580, 540.585, 543.220,  543A.035, 543A.040, 543A.055
and 543A.120 by sections 2 to 4, 6,  7, 10, 14, 17, 19, 20, 25, 26, [ 32, 33 and ] 34 to 38 and 40 to  46
[of this 2025 Act ], chapter 282, Oregon Laws 2025 (Enrolled House Bill 3342),  become  operative
on April 1, 2026.
(2) The amendments to ORS 537.153,  537.621 and 540.520 by sections 5a, 16a and 20a of this
2025 Act become operative on April 1, 2026.
SECTION 22.  ORS 540.560 is amended to read:
540.560. (1) If the Water Resources Commission considers  that a certificate of water right does
not identify the lands to  which the right is appurtenant with sufficient specificity for management,
delivery or transfer of that right, the commission may issue [ an] a proposed final  order  clarifying
and refining the description of the land to which the water right is appurtenant.
(2) [ An] A proposed final  order issued under this section may not reduce the rate, duty or
number of acres stated in the certificate of water  right. The sole purpose of an addendum to a water
right certificate is to better define the location of acreage to which the water right  is appurtenant,
where the certificate states only that the use is limited to a number of acres within a larger tract.
(3) Any  proposed final order issued under this section shall be served on  the legal owner of the
land to which the water right is appurtenant and on the occupant of the land, by  certified mail,
return receipt requested. [ If the owner or occupant  files a written request for a hearing within 30 days
after service of the order, the commission shall conduct a hearing of the matter under ORS 183.413  to
183.484.] Notwithstanding sections 2 and 3 of this 2025 Act,  if the owner or occupant files a
written protest within 30 days  after issuance of the proposed final order, the commission
shall conduct a hearing.
(4) The provisions of sections 2 and 3 of this 2025 Act, and rules  adopted thereunder,
apply to a contested case proceeding on a proposed final order issued under this section.
[(4)] (5) A final order under  this section shall become an addendum to and shall be filed with
the certificate of water right that the order clarifies. For all purposes,  the final order shall consti-
tute the description of the land to which the water right is appurtenant.
SECTION 23.  ORS 540.641 is amended to read:
540.641. (1) If the legal owner or the occupant  receiving notice as provided in ORS 540.631 fails
to protest  the proposed cancellation of the water right within the 60-day period prescribed in the
notice, the Water Resources Commission may enter an order canceling the water right.
(2) If the legal owner or the occupant  receiving notice as provided in ORS 540.631 files a protest
against the proposed cancellation of the water right  the  provisions of sections 2 and 3 of this
2025 Act and the  rules adopted thereunder apply  [ with the commission within the 60-day period
prescribed in  the notice, the commission shall fix a time and place for a hearing on the protest ]. The
commission shall cause written  notice of the hearing to be given at least 10 days prior to the
hearing to the person protesting the cancellation of the water right and to  any other person who
in the  opinion of the commission is an interested party to the proceeding. [ The hearing shall be held
by the commission and shall be conducted under  the provisions of ORS chapter 183 pertaining to
contested cases.]
(3) After  [ the] a hearing the commission shall enter an order canceling the water right, cancel-
ing in part or modifying the water right, or declaring that the water right shall not be canceled  or
modified.
APPLICABILITY TO COMPLETED APPLICATIONS
SECTION 24. (1) Notwithstanding ORS 536.031  (1), rules adopted under section 2 or 3 of
this 2025 Act apply to aspects of a contested case proceeding that occur on or after the ef-
fective date of this 2025 Act, for a protest:
(a) That was submitted before, on or after the effective date of this 2025 Act; and
(b) That was not  referred to the Office of Administrative Hearings before the effective
date of this 2025 Act.
Enrolled House Bill 3544 (HB 3544-C) Page 25
(2) For  protests that were pending on or before the effective date of this 2025 Act, the
Water Resources Department  shall provide to applicants, protestants, persons that submit-
ted a request  for standing and persons that have requested or been granted party status
notice of the provisions  and requirements of sections 2 and 3 of this 2025 Act.
Notwithstanding section 3 of this 2025 Act, the department shall provide  not less than 90
days after issuance of the notice for:
(a) A person that submitted a  request for standing to request party status in an existing
contested case proceeding.
(b) A  protestant in an existing contested case proceeding to amend the protest as nec-
essary to comply with the provisions of section 3 of  this 2025 Act. The amended protest may
not add issues not raised in the original protest.
(3) A person that submitted a request for party status before the effective  date of this
2025 Act need not amend the request.
APPROPRIATIONS
SECTION 24a. Notwithstanding any other provision  of law, the General Fund appropri-
ation made to the Water Resources Department by section 1 (3), chapter , Oregon
Laws 2025 (Enrolled Senate Bill  5543), for the biennium beginning July 1, 2025, for water
rights and adjudications, is increased by $226,420 to carry out the provisions of this 2025  Act.
CONFORMING AMENDMENTS
SECTION 25.  ORS 536.050 is amended to read:
536.050. (1) The Water Resources Department may collect the following fees in advance:
(a) For examining an application for a permit:
(A) To appropriate water, except as provided under ORS 543.280 for an application for a  hy-
droelectric project:
(i) A base fee of $1,090 for an appropriation of water through a single use, point of diversion
or point of appropriation;
(ii) $410 for the first second-foot or fraction thereof appropriated under the permit;
(iii) $410 for each additional second-foot or fraction thereof appropriated under the permit;
(iv) $410 for each additional use, point of diversion or point of appropriation included in the
application;
(v) If appropriating stored water, $41 for the  first acre-foot or fraction thereof up to 20 acre-feet,
plus $1.40 for each additional acre-foot or fraction thereof; and
(vi) If appropriating ground water, in addition to any other  fees, $480 for each application filed.
(B) To store water under ORS 537.400 or 537.534 (4):
(i) A base fee of $1,090;
(ii) $41 for the first acre-foot or fraction thereof up  to 20 acre-feet, plus $1.40 for each additional
acre-foot or fraction thereof; and
(iii) $160 for each additional storage location.
(C) To exclusively appropriate stored water:
(i) A base fee of $610; and
(ii) $41 for the first acre-foot or fraction thereof up  to 20 acre-feet, plus $1.40 for each additional
acre-foot or fraction thereof.
(b) For a permit issued under  ORS 537.147, 537.211, 537.409 or 537.625 to appropriate or store
water:
(A) A base fee of $610 for recording the permit; and
(B) An additional fee of $790 if the permit is issued pursuant to a final  order that contains
provisions requested by the applicant for mitigating impacts to the proposed water source.
Enrolled House Bill 3544 (HB 3544-C) Page 26
(c) For filing and recording the assignment or  partial assignment of a water right application,
permit or license under ORS 537.220 or 537.635, $120.
(d) For copying records in  the department, $2.70 for the first page and 70 cents for each addi-
tional page.
(e) For certifying copies, documents, records or maps, $14 for each certificate.
(f) For a blueprint copy of any map or drawing, the actual cost of the work.
(g) For a computer-generated map, the actual cost of the work.
(h) For examining an application for approval of a change to an existing water right or permit:
(A) A base fee of $1,360 for a change to a single water right or permit;
(B) $1,090 for each additional type of change requested;
(C) For a request for a change in place of use  or type of use or for a water exchange under ORS
540.533, $410 for each second-foot or fraction thereof requested beyond the first second-foot;
(D) $610 for each additional water right or permit included in the application;
(E) An additional fee of $480 per application, if the application is for  an additional point of ap-
propriation, a change in a point  of appropriation or a change from surface water to ground water
or for substitution as described in ORS 540.524; and
(F) $410 for each additional point of appropriation included in the application.
(i) For examining an application for a temporary change in place of use under ORS  540.523, for
a temporary transfer under ORS 540.585 or for a temporary change in  place of use, a change in the
point of diversion to allow for the appropriation of ground water or a change of a primary right  to
a supplemental  right under ORS 540.570, a base fee of $950 for the first water right or permit, plus
$310 for each additional water right or permit included in the application and:
(A) For nonirrigation uses,  $230 for each second-foot or fraction thereof requested beyond the
first second-foot; or
(B) For irrigation uses, $2.70 per acre of land irrigated or, if the  application and required map
are submitted to the department in a department-approved digital format, 70  cents per acre of land
irrigated.
(j) For submitting a protest to the department:
(A) $950 if the protest is by a nonapplicant; and
(B) $480 if the protest is by an applicant.
(k) For filing an application for extension of time within which irrigation or other works  shall
be completed or a water right perfected, $780.
(L) For a limited license under ORS 537.143 or 537.534 (2), the fee established  by rule by the
Water Resources Commission.
(m) For filing, examining and certifying a petition under ORS  541.329, $480 plus 10 cents per
acre of water involved in the application. For purposes of computing this fee, when any  acreage
within a quarter quarter of a  section is involved, the 10 cents per acre shall apply to all acres in
that quarter quarter of a section. Notwithstanding the fee amount established in this paragraph,  a
district notifying the department under ORS 541.327 (4) shall pay the  actual cost of filing, examining
and certifying the petition.
(n) For requesting standing  under ORS [ 537.153, 537.621 or] 543A.120 or section 3 of this 2025
Act, $270.
(o) For participating in a contested case proceeding under ORS  [ 537.170, 537.622 or ] 543A.130
or section 3 of this 2025 Act , $680.
(p) Except for an applicant, for obtaining a copy of both a proposed final  order and a final order
for a water right application  under ORS 537.140 to 537.252, 537.505 to 537.795 or 543A.005 to
543A.300 or an extension issued under ORS 537.230, 537.248 or 537.630, $35.
(q) For examining an application to store water under ORS 537.409:
(A) A base fee of $480; and
(B) $41 for each acre-foot or fraction thereof.
(r) For submitting a notice  of intent under ORS 543A.030 or 543A.075, the amount established
by the Water Resources Director under ORS 543A.410.
Enrolled House Bill 3544 (HB 3544-C) Page 27
(s) For examining an application for a substitution made under ORS 540.524:
(A) A base fee of $990 for the first well substitution; and
(B) A fee of $480 for each additional well substitution.
(t) For examining an application for an allocation of conserved water under ORS 537.455  to
537.500:
(A) A base fee of $1,360 for the first water right that is part of the allocation; and
(B) An additional fee of $480 for each water right that is  part of the allocation beyond the first
water right.
(u) For submitting a water management and conservation plan pursuant to  rules of the com-
mission:
(A) $680, if the plan is submitted by an agricultural water supplier;
(B) $1,220, if the plan is submitted by a municipal water supplier serving a population  of 1,000
or fewer persons; or
(C) $2,450, if  the plan is submitted by a municipal water supplier serving a population of more
than 1,000 persons.
(v) For examining a new application for an in-stream water right lease under ORS 537.348:
(A) $610 for an application  for a lease with four or more landowners or four or more water
rights; or
(B) $410 for all other applications.
(w) For examining an application for an in-stream water right lease renewal, $150.
(x) For submitting a claim of beneficial use under a permit or transfer having a priority  date
of July 9, 1987, or later, $230.
(y) For  submitting a request no later than 60 days after cancellation of a permit under ORS
537.260 to reinstate the permit, $610.
(z) For submitting a request for a basin program exception under ORS 536.295, $780.
(aa) For processing an application under ORS 537.225 for an  assignment of water right to one
or more landowners and issuance of replacement water right permits, the actual cost of the work.
(2)(a) The department may charge a dam owner an annual fee based upon the dam’s hazard
rating as determined by the department. The fees the department may charge the dam owner are:
(A) $120 for a dam with a low hazard rating.
(B) $230 for a dam with a significant hazard rating.
(C) $790 for a dam with a high hazard rating.
(D) If  the dam owner fails to pay an annual fee on or before six months after the billing date,
a late fee of $140.
(b) If a dam owner fails to pay an annual fee or a late fee charged by the department, the de-
partment may, after  giving the dam owner notice by certified mail, place a lien on the real property
where the dam is located for the fees owed by the dam owner.
(3) Notwithstanding the  fees established under subsection (1) of this section, the commission may
establish lower examination and permit fees by rule for:
(a) The right to appropriate water for a storage project of five acre-feet or less; or
(b) The right to appropriate water for  the purpose of allowing the applicant to water livestock
outside of a riparian area, as that term is defined in ORS 541.890.
(4)(a) The director may refund all or part of a fee paid to the department under  this section if
the director determines that a  refund of the fee is appropriate in the interests of fairness to the
public or necessary to correct an error of the department.
(b) The director may refund all or part of the protest fee described  in subsection (1)(j) of this
section to the legal owner or occupant  who filed a protest under ORS 540.641 if an order of the
Water Resources Commission establishes that all or part of a water right has not been canceled or
modified under ORS 540.610 to 540.650.
(5) The director may waive all or part of a fee for a change to  a water right permit under ORS
537.211 (4), a change to a water right subject to transfer under ORS 540.520 or 540.523 or an  allo-
cation of conserved water under ORS 537.470, if the change or allocation of conserved water is:
Enrolled House Bill 3544 (HB 3544-C) Page 28
(a) Made pursuant to ORS 537.348;
(b) Necessary to complete a project funded under ORS 541.932; or
(c) Approved by the State Department of Fish and Wildlife as a change or  allocation of con-
served water that will result in a net benefit to fish and wildlife habitat.
(6) Notwithstanding the fees established pursuant to this section, the commission  may adopt by
rule reduced fees for persons submitting materials to the department in a digital  format approved
by the department.
(7) All moneys received under this section, less any amounts refunded under subsection (4)  of
this section, shall be deposited in the Water Resources Department Water Right Operating Fund.
(8) Notwithstanding subsection (7) of this section,  all fees received by the department for power
purposes under ORS  543.280 shall be deposited in the Water Resources Department Hydroelectric
Fund established by ORS 536.015.
SECTION 26.
 ORS 536.750 is amended to read:
536.750. (1) Notwithstanding any provision of ORS chapters 536 to  543A, after a declaration that
a severe, continuing drought exists, the Water Resources Commission may:
(a) Issue without first conducting a hearing under  ORS 537.170  and section 3 of this  2025
Act, a temporary permit for an emergency use of water;
(b) Allow a temporary change  in use, place of use or point of diversion of water without com-
plying with the notice and waiting requirements under ORS 540.520;
(c) Notwithstanding the priority of water rights, grant preference of use to rights for  human
consumption or stock watering use;
(d) Waive the notice requirements under ORS  537.753 and the start card required under ORS
537.762;
(e) Allow a temporary exchange of water without giving notice as  required under ORS 540.535;
and
(f) Utilize an expedited notice and waiting requirement established by rule for the substitution
of a  supplemental ground water right for a primary water right under drought conditions [ in place
of the notice and waiting requirement provided in ORS 540.524 ].
(2) The commission by rule may establish procedures for carrying out the provisions of this
section and a schedule of fees that must accompany a request under subsection (1) of this section.
SECTION 27.  ORS 537.147 is amended to read:
537.147. (1) Notwithstanding the process  for applying for a water right permit established in
ORS 537.150 to 537.230, a person may, pursuant  to this section, apply to the Water Resources De-
partment for a water right permit to use stored water. A person applying  under this section for a
water right permit to use stored water shall submit:
(a) A fee, in the amount required by ORS 536.050 for applications to appropriate stored water.
(b) A completed application for a secondary permit, in a form determined  by the department,
that contains the information required of applications under ORS 537.140 and 537.400 (1).
(c) Evidence that the proposed use of the  stored water is one of the authorized uses under the
water right permit, certificate or decree that allows the storage of water.
(2) If an applicant provides, to the satisfaction of the department, the  fee and the information
required by subsection (1) of this section,  the department may, after public notice and a 30-day op-
portunity to submit comments on the  application, issue a water right permit upon determining that
no public interest issues as identified in  ORS 537.170 [ (8)] (5)  have been raised through the com-
ments submitted.
(3) If the department determines that public interest issues  have been identified, then the de-
partment shall treat the application under this section  as an application under ORS 537.150 and
perform the public interest review required by ORS 537.153 (2).
(4) At a minimum, a water right permit issued by the department for use of stored water under
this section shall be conditioned to require:
(a) Fish screens  and by-pass devices and fish passage as may be required by the State Depart-
ment of Fish and Wildlife; and
Enrolled House Bill 3544 (HB 3544-C) Page 29
(b) A measuring device at each point of diversion authorized under the water right permit.
(5) Within 10 days of  issuing a water right permit under this section, the department shall pro-
vide notice of the permit issuance in the weekly notice published by the  department and to persons
who have submitted comments pursuant to subsection (2) of this section.
SECTION 28.
 ORS 537.343 is amended to read:
537.343. (1)  A proposed final order issued under ORS 537.170 [ (6)] (3) or (5)  for an in-stream
water right certificate  may include any condition the Water Resources Director considers necessary,
but which is consistent with the intent of ORS 537.332 to 537.360. The proposed final order may:
(a) Approve the in-stream water right for the quantity of water requested;
(b) Approve the requested in-stream water right for a lesser quantity of water; or
(c) Reject the requested in-stream water right.
(2) If the director reduces or rejects the in-stream water right  as requested, or conditions the
in-stream water right, the director shall include a statement of findings  that sets forth the basis for
the reduction, rejection or conditions. The director  shall be the final authority in determining the
level of in-stream flow necessary to protect the public use.
(3) After the director  issues a final order approving an in-stream water right, the Water Re-
sources Department shall issue a certificate for an in-stream water  right according to the provisions
of ORS 537.341.
SECTION 29.
 ORS 537.629 is amended to read:
537.629. (1) When an application discloses the probability of wasteful use or  undue interference
with existing wells or that any proposed use or well will impair or substantially interfere  with ex-
isting rights to  appropriate surface water by others, or that any proposed use or well will impair
or substantially interfere with existing rights to appropriate ground  water for the beneficial use of
the water for its  thermal characteristics, the Water Resources Department may impose conditions
or limitations in the permit to prevent the same or reject the same  after hearing, or, in the
department’s discretion, request the Water Resources Commission to initiate a  rulemaking proceed-
ing to declare the affected area a critical ground water area under ORS 537.730 to 537.740.
(2)(a) When an application discloses  the probability that a proposed use or well will impair or
interfere with the ability  to extract heat from a well with a bottom hole temperature of at least 250
degrees Fahrenheit, the department may:
(A) Approve the permit;
(B) Impose conditions or limitations  in the permit to prevent the probable interference or
impairment;
(C) After a hearing under ORS 537.622  and sections 2  and 3 of this 2025 Act , reject the ap-
plication;  or
(D) Request the commission to initiate a rulemaking proceeding to declare  the affected area a
critical ground water area under ORS 537.730 to 537.740.
(b) In deciding whether to issue,  deny or condition a permit under this subsection, the depart-
ment shall consider any orders or permits applicable to the ground water reservoir issued  by the
State Geologist or the governing board of  the State Department of Geology and Mineral Industries
under ORS chapter 522.
SECTION 30.
 ORS 540.537 is amended to read:
540.537. (1) The Water Resources Commission shall issue an order allowing an  exchange unless
the commission finds any of the following:
(a) The proposed exchange would adversely affect other appropriators.
(b) The proposed exchanges would be too difficult to administer.
(c) The proposed exchange would adversely  affect the public interest as determined under ORS
537.170 [(8)] (5).
(d) A sufficient quantity of water would not be available to replace the water to be used  under
the exchange. In determining whether replacement water will be equal to the water  exchanged, the
commission may consider relative consumptive uses and transmission losses.
Enrolled House Bill 3544 (HB 3544-C) Page 30
(2) The commission may include any condition the commission considers necessary in  an order
allowing an exchange.
(3) The commission shall issue an order terminating the exchange:
(a) If water is not applied under the exchange within  the time fixed by the commission in the
order approving the exchange;
(b) Upon written request signed by all parties to the exchange;
(c) Upon finding that any other  termination condition specified in the original order has oc-
curred; or
(d) Upon attainment of a termination date specified in the original exchange order.
(4) For purposes of subsection (3) of this section,  the time fixed for implementing the exchange
shall include any extension granted by the commission for good cause shown.
SECTION 31.
 ORS 543.255 is amended to read:
543.255. (1) Whenever the Water  Resources Department receives an application to appropriate
water for a new hydroelectric project under ORS 537.140 to 537.320 or for a hydroelectric permit
or license under ORS 543.010 to  543.610, the department shall determine whether the impacts of the
project would be cumulative with:
(a) Impacts of other proposed hydroelectric  projects for which an application is pending before
the department; or
(b) Existing hydroelectric projects in the same river basin.
(2) If the department  determines that there is no possibility that the hydroelectric projects
proposed in pending applications or  existing projects may have cumulative effects, the Water Re-
sources Director shall issue an order setting forth the department’s determination that there  are
no cumulative effects and the department’s decision that consolidated review is not required.
(3) If the department determines that pending applications or existing  projects may have cumu-
lative effects, the Water Resources Commission shall conduct a consolidated review  before approv-
ing any application in the affected  river basin. A consolidated review process shall be conducted
as a contested case hearing under the applicable provisions of ORS chapter  183 and shall include
a study of the individual and  cumulative effects of proposed hydroelectric projects for which appli-
cations are pending before the department and  existing hydroelectric projects. In its final order on
an application, the commission or the department shall include its findings  on cumulative impacts.
The findings of the commission or department  under this section must be sufficient to support the
department’s decision to approve or deny an application.
(4) Any application for a project in the same river basin filed after the commission begins  a
consolidated review contested case hearing shall not be reviewed until the commission  has issued
final findings on cumulative effects for all projects included in the consolidated review proceeding.
(5) At the request of an applicant for a permit to appropriate water for a new  hydroelectric
project under ORS 537.140  to 537.320 or for a permit or license under ORS 543.010 to 543.610, the
commission may immediately upon receiving such application begin the  consolidated review pro-
ceeding under subsection (3) of this section.
(6) If applicable, an application to appropriate  water for the generation of electricity
submitted under ORS 537.140 shall  be included in the consolidated review and hearings
process under this section.
SECTION 32.
 ORS 543.765 is amended to read:
543.765. (1) Notwithstanding ORS 537.145 and ORS chapter 543:
(a) The holder of  a water right may apply to the Water Resources Department for a certificate
to use water for  hydroelectric purposes within an artificial delivery system under the applicant’s
existing water right.
(b) A municipal corporation or people’s utility district, as defined in ORS 261.010, may apply to
the department for a certificate to use water for hydroelectric  purposes within a piped conduit in
an artificial delivery system that is delivering  water for municipal uses even if the municipal cor-
poration or people’s utility  district is not the holder of the underlying municipal water right, if the
municipal corporation or people’s utility district obtains from the  holder of the underlying municipal
Enrolled House Bill 3544 (HB 3544-C) Page 31
water right, and provides to the department with the application, a written statement authorizing
the municipal corporation or people’s utility district to use the water for hydroelectric purposes.
(2) If the proposed hydroelectric project meets the applicable capacity limitation under  this
subsection and meets either the qualifications for a Federal Energy  Regulatory Commission ex-
emption from  licensing or similar qualifications of another federal agency responsible for authorizing
the project, the applicant may use the expedited application process under this section  regardless
of which federal agency issues the authorization. To qualify under this subsection:
(a) For  a project that is to be built as part of an existing dam, the capacity may not exceed five
megawatts. Subsection (6)(b) of this section does not apply to a project described  in this paragraph.
(b) For in-conduit projects, the capacity may not exceed 15 megawatts for a nonmunicipal facil-
ity or 40 megawatts for a municipal facility. Projects described in this paragraph must  comply with
subsection (6)(b) of this section.
(3) An application, which shall be  on a form provided by the Water Resources Department, for
a hydroelectric certificate under this section must include:
(a) The certificate number, or decree  reference if no confirming certificate has been issued, of
the applicant’s existing water  right, or the underlying water right, associated with the proposed
hydroelectric project.
(b) A copy of either  a Federal Energy Regulatory Commission exemption application or a similar
application submitted to the federal agency responsible for authorizing the project, if applicable.
(c) A proposed schedule of annual water use  and an estimate of the maximum power generation
of the proposed hydroelectric project.
(d) A statement by  the applicant that the amount of water used by the proposed hydroelectric
project will not  exceed the amount authorized and used under the applicant’s existing water right,
or the underlying water right, for beneficial use without waste.
(e) A statement that the applicant owns or otherwise controls the water conveyance system.
(f) An application processing fee of $500. The department shall deposit  fees collected under this
section into the  Water Resources Department Hydroelectric Fund established pursuant to ORS
536.015.
(g) A map or drawing and all other data concerning the proposed hydroelectric project, as  may
be prescribed by the department. The map or drawing must be of sufficient quality  and scale to es-
tablish the location of the existing point of  diversion and the proposed location of the hydroelectric
project.
(h) If the water to be used for  the proposed hydroelectric project is delivered by a public entity
other than the applicant for  a certificate under this section, a statement from that entity that the
entity will be able to deliver water as described in the application.
(i) Evidence  that the water has been used over the past five years according to the terms and
conditions of the applicant’s existing water right, or the underlying water right,  described in para-
graph (a) of this subsection.
(4) If an applicant provides the information required by subsection (3) of this section:
(a) The Water Resources Department shall provide notice to both the State Department  of Fish
and Wildlife and the public, and provide a 30-day period for public comment.
(b) The Water Resources Department may issue a final order and certificate to use  water for
hydroelectric purposes upon making a final  determination that the proposed hydroelectric use does
not impair, or is not detrimental to, the public interest in the manner  provided in ORS 537.170
[(8)] (5).
(5) If the Water Resources Department determines that public interest issues  have been identi-
fied, the department shall issue a final order denying the  application. The department shall also is-
sue a final order denying the application if the department identifies issues related  to the public
interest. If  the applicant does not appeal the final order as provided in ORS chapter 183 and, within
one year of the department’s  final order denying the applicant’s application, files an application with
the department  for a preliminary permit to operate a hydroelectric project as provided in ORS
Enrolled House Bill 3544 (HB 3544-C) Page 32
537.130 and 543.210, the applicant shall receive a credit toward the applicant’s  application fees in
the amount of $500.
(6) At a minimum, a certificate issued under this section must contain the following conditions:
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this subsection, fish  screens, by-pass devices and fish
passages as required by the State Department of Fish and Wildlife.
(b) If the application is for a hydroelectric project that is to be installed in or on a conduit de-
livery system, the certificate does not need to include a requirement for fish passage at the diversion
point for the conduit delivery system if:
(A) The hydroelectric generating equipment for the project is not located on a dam;
(B) The hydroelectric  generating equipment for the project is installed within or at the end of
a conduit delivery system;
(C) The conduit delivery system is operated for the distribution of water for agricultural, mu-
nicipal or industrial consumption; and
(D) Except as provided in subsection (16) of this  section, the certificate includes a condition for
the making of annual payments under subsection (15) of this section.
(c) That use of  water be limited to periods when the applicant’s existing water right, or the
underlying water right, is put to beneficial use without  waste and that the amount used is not
greater than the quantity of water diverted to satisfy the authorized  specific use under the existing
water right, or the underlying water right, described in subsection (3)(a) of this section.
(d) That use  of water be limited by rate, duty, season and any other limitations of the applicant’s
existing water right, or the underlying water right, described in subsection (3)(a) of this section.
(e) That the applicant measure and report the quantity of water diverted.
(f) That the restrictions established in ORS 543.660 shall apply  as conditions of use to a certif-
icate issued under this section to a district as defined in ORS 543.655.
(g) That a certificate issued under  this section shall be invalidated upon a change in the point
of diversion of the existing water right,  or the underlying water right, described in subsection (3)(a)
of this section.
(h) That the right  to use water under a certificate issued under this section is invalidated if the
federal exemption or authorization related to the certificate is canceled or invalidated.
(i) Any other conditions the Water Resources Department deems necessary to protect  the public
interest.
(7) The Water Resources Department shall conduct a review of certificates issued under this
section and shall issue a final order  and a superseding certificate that corresponds to any changes
or adjustments made to the applicant’s existing water right,  or the underlying water right, described
in subsection (3)(a) of this section.
(8) Subsection (6)(b)  of this section does not affect any requirement for fish passage applicable
to a project that is otherwise required by law.
(9) Upon request, the State Department of Fish  and Wildlife and the Water Resources Depart-
ment shall arrange a preapplication meeting with a person to discuss  the requirements associated
with the installation of a hydroelectric project in an artificial delivery system.
(10) A certificate issued under this section may not have its own priority date. The Water  Re-
sources Department may not  regulate for or against any certificate issued under this section based
on the priority date of the certificate.
(11) A certificate issued under this section does not grant a right to divert water  for hydro-
electric purposes.
(12) A certificate issued under  this section may not be included in the determination of injury
to other water rights pursuant to ORS chapter 540.
(13) A certificate issued under  this section is subject to review 50 years after the date of issu-
ance and pursuant to the terms described in this section.
(14) Failure to  fully develop and put to use a certificate issued under this section within five
years of issuance invalidates the hydroelectric certificate.
Enrolled House Bill 3544 (HB 3544-C) Page 33
(15)(a) If a certificate contains a condition described in subsection (6)(b) of this section for an-
nual payments, the payment shall be collected  as provided in paragraph (c) of this subsection. Ex-
cept as provided in paragraph (b) of this subsection, the annual payment amount must be:
(A) Except as provided in subparagraph (D) of this paragraph, for the first five years, four  times
the base hydropower fee amount assessed for the project under ORS 543.078 for the year.
(B) Except as provided in subparagraph (D) of this paragraph, for  the 6th through 10th years,
eight times the  base hydropower fee amount assessed for the project under ORS 543.078 for the year.
(C) Except as provided in subparagraph (D) of this paragraph, after the 10th year,  15 times the
base hydropower fee amount assessed for the project under ORS 543.078 for the year.
(D) $100 for any year in which the base  hydropower fee amount assessed for the project under
ORS 543.078 is less than $100.
(b) If the certificate is for  a hydroelectric project that will operate on a partial-year basis, the
fee shall be three-fifths of the amount established in paragraph (a) of this subsection.
(c) The Water Resources  Department shall collect the fee on behalf of the State Department of
Fish and Wildlife and forward  the fee moneys for crediting to the Fish Passage Restoration Subac-
count created under ORS 497.141.
(16)(a) Notwithstanding subsection (15) of this section, a certificate  for a project to install hy-
droelectric generating equipment as described  in subsection (6)(b) of this section may provide for the
termination of annual payments being made  under subsection (15) of this section if, after the date
the project commences operation:
(A) The project provides for fish passages;
(B) There is an agreement between  the applicant and the State Department of Fish and Wildlife
providing for fish passages associated with the project; or
(C) A waiver or exemption has been issued under ORS 509.585 for the project.
(b) A certificate  for a project to install hydroelectric generating equipment as described in
subsection (6)(b) of this section does not need to  include a condition for the making of annual pay-
ments under subsection (15) of this section if:
(A) There is an  agreement between the applicant and the State Department of Fish and Wildlife
providing for the conduit delivery system to have fish passages associated with the project; or
(B) A waiver or exemption has been issued under ORS 509.585 for the project.
(17) If a certificate under this section is issued, the certificate holder must pay  fees consistent
with the  fees described in ORS 543.078. Failure to pay a required fee invalidates a certificate issued
under this section.
(18) The Water Resources  Department shall issue invoices for fees required under this section,
and the state shall have a preference lien for delinquent fees, as provided in ORS 543.082.
(19) An applicant for  a certificate issued under this section must provide evidence of a Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission exemption or approval under  a similar process by the federal agency
responsible for authorizing the project before a certificate can be issued, if applicable.
(20) Nothing in this section shall alter the preference of municipalities in  ORS 543.260 (3) and
543.270.
CAPTIONS
SECTION 33.
The unit captions used in this 2025 Act are provided  only for the conven-
ience of the reader and do not become part of the statutory law of  this state or express any
legislative intent in the enactment of this 2025 Act.
Enrolled House Bill 3544 (HB 3544-C) Page 34
Passed by House June 23, 2025
Repassed by House June 27, 2025
..................................................................................
Timothy G. Sekerak, Chief Clerk of House
..................................................................................
Julie Fahey, Speaker of House
Passed by Senate June 27, 2025
..................................................................................
Rob Wagner, President of Senate
Received by Governor:
........................M.,........................................................., 2025
Approved:
........................M.,........................................................., 2025
..................................................................................
Tina Kotek, Governor
Filed in Office of Secretary of State:
........................M.,........................................................., 2025
..................................................................................
Tobias Read, Secretary of State
Enrolled House Bill 3544 (HB 3544-C) Page 35