1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2744
Sponsored by Representative NELSON (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Tells an insurer that it may  not exclude, limit or reduce benefits under a policy that
covers health care for a person’s pet on  the basis that the pet had a health condition before the
policy went into effect. Says that this is  so even if the pet owner knew about the condition. Takes
effect 91 days after the session ends. (Flesch Readability Score: 61.3).
Prohibits insurers that  issue a policy of insurance that provides coverage or benefits to an in-
sured for veterinary services for the  insured’s pet from excluding, limiting or reducing the coverage
or benefits on the basis of a preexisting condition that affects the pet’s health or physical condition.
Takes effect on the 91st day following adjournment sine die.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to exclusions of insurance coverage for veterinary services on the  basis of a preexisting
condition; and prescribing an effective date.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
Section 2 of this 2025 Act is  added to and made a part of the Insurance Code.
SECTION 2. (1) As used in this section:
(a)(A) “Pet” means an animal that an individual keeps exclusively for the  purpose of
providing personal companionship or direct aid to the individual.
(B) “Pet” does  not include animals that perform work, are livestock or are otherwise
kept for purposes that do not involve personal companionship or direct aid to an individual.
(b) “Preexisting condition” means a condition  for which a pet received veterinary ser-
vices or treatment, or for which veterinary services  or treatment were recommended, within
six months preceding the effective date of coverage under an insurance policy.
(2) An insurer that issues a policy of insurance in this state that provides  coverage or
benefits to an insured for veterinary services for the insured’s pet may not exclude, limit
or reduce, including by means of waivers or riders of any kind, coverage or benefits provided
under the policy of  insurance on the basis of a preexisting condition that affects the health
or physical condition of the pet, regardless of whether the insured knew of  the preexisting
condition or disclosed the preexisting condition on any application for the insurance.
SECTION 3.
Section 2 of this 2025 Act applies to policies of insurance that  an insurer
issues or renews on or after the effective date of this 2025 Act.
SECTION 4. This 2025 Act takes effect on the 91st day after the date on  which the 2025
regular session of the Eighty-third Legislative Assembly adjourns sine die.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1908