1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2023 Regular Session
House Bill 2472
Sponsored by Representative BYNUM (at the request of Oregon Student Association) (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Requires public universities to develop specified policies and  accountability mechanisms for be-
havior at interscholastic activities,  including sporting events. Prohibits public universities from
participating in interscholastic activities or receiving state moneys in form  of state grants, schol-
arship funds or Oregon State Police support  if public university fails to develop or enforce policies
and accountability mechanisms.
Requires public universities to  train all athletic department personnel on policies and account-
ability mechanisms.
Requires public universities to suspend  athletic director and head coach for minimum of one
week if policies are  violated through use of derogatory or inappropriate names, insults, verbal as-
saults, profanity or ridicule at interscholastic activity hosted by public university.
Requires Higher Education Coordinating Commission to  work with independent universities,
NCAA and professional, student, cultural and religious organizations to develop rules  for inter-
scholastic codes of conduct.
Declares emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to behavior related to interscholastic activities; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) A public university listed in ORS 352.002 may participate in interscho-
lastic activities, including but  not limited to interscholastic sporting events, only if the public
university:
(a) Implements equity focused policies that  address the use of derogatory or inappropri-
ate names, insults, verbal assaults, profanity or ridicule that  occurs at an interscholastic
activity, including by spectators of the interscholastic activity;
(b) Maintains a transparent complaint process that:
(A) Has a reporting system to  allow participants of interscholastic activities or members
of the public to make complaints about student, coach or spectator behavior;
(B) Responds to a complaint made under  subparagraph (A) of this paragraph within 48
hours of the complaint being received; and
(C) Strives to resolve a complaint received under subparagraph  (A) of this paragraph
within 30 days of the complaint being received;
(c) Develops and implements a  system of sanctions against students, coaches and spec-
tators if a complaint made under paragraph (b) of this subsection is verified; and
(d) Performs an annual survey of  students to understand and respond to potential vio-
lations of  equity focused policies adopted under paragraph (a) of this subsection or violations
of ORS 659.850.
(2) Each employee of a public university whose official duties relate  to the athletics de-
partment of the public university must receive formal training regarding the requirements
established by subsection (1) of this section.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2047
HB 2472
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
(3) If a sporting event is hosted by a public university listed in  ORS 352.002 and attendees
at the  sporting event engage in the use of derogatory or inappropriate names, insults, verbal
assaults, profanity or ridicule in violation of equity focused policies  adopted under subsection
(1)(a) of this section, the public university must:
(a) Suspend the athletic director of the public university for at least one week; and
(b) Suspend the head coach of the athletic  team of the public university that was par-
ticipating in the sporting event for at least one week.
(4) A public university that fails to  comply with the requirements set forth in subsection
(1) of this section, or to meaningfully enforce  the requirements set forth in subsection (1)
of this section, may not receive public moneys in the form  of state grants, state scholarship
moneys or support from the Oregon State Police.
SECTION 2.
The Higher Education Coordinating Commission shall work with independent
universities, the National Collegiate  Athletic Association, professional organizations, student
organizations, cultural organizations and religious organizations to  develop rules for inter-
scholastic codes of conduct. To the degree practicable, the commission shall promote  the
adoption of codes of conduct comparable to  the requirements that public universities listed
in ORS 352.002 must adopt pursuant to section 1 of this 2023 Act.
SECTION 3. Section 1 of this 2023 Act first applies to the 2023-2024 academic year.
SECTION 4. This 2023 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the  public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is  declared to exist, and this 2023 Act takes effect
on its passage.
[2]