1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 654
Sponsored by Senator BONHAM (at the request of Senator Noah Robinson) (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Allows school districts to use students for work in district.  (Flesch Readability Score:
78.2).
Authorizes  district  school boards to establish a policy to encourage students to develop voca-
tional skills by performing maintenance tasks for school districts.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to the development of student vocational skills.
Whereas Oregon students are graduating without many basic work skills; and
Whereas Oregon schools employ many professionals who do work that could be done  by stu-
dents; and
Whereas there is a  need to allow for opportunities for students to develop vocational skills; now,
therefore,
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
Section 2 of this 2025 Act is added to and made a part of ORS chapter 332.
SECTION 2. (1) A district school board may  establish a policy to encourage students of
the school district to develop vocational skills by performing maintenance tasks at  a building
or on other property under the control of the school district.
(2) A policy established under subsection (1) of this section must:
(a) Allow students to  develop vocational skills as part of a work experience or career
exploration program or as part of a work-study program;
(b) Attempt to save money for the school district; and
(c) Encourage students to experience a wide range of work opportunities  and develop a
wide range of vocational skills.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2314