1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
79th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2017 Regular Session
Senate Bill 798
Sponsored by Senator KNOPP
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Establishes State  Transportation Donation Fund. Continuously appropriates moneys in fund to
Department of  Transportation for purposes specified in gift or donation or, if no specific purpose is
specified, for transportation projects selected by Oregon Transportation Commission.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to the State Transportation Donation Fund.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The State Transportation  Donation Fund is established in the State
Treasury, separate and distinct from the General Fund. The following  moneys shall be placed
in the State Transportation Donation Fund:
(a) Gifts and donations to the Department of Transportation;
(b) The interest, income, dividends or profits received on any property  or funds of the
department derived from gifts, legacies, devises, bequests, endowments or other donations;
(c) Other interest earned by the fund; and
(d) Any other moneys placed in the fund as provided by law.
(2) Moneys in the fund that are derived from profits, interest or other  earnings traceable
to a specific gift, legacy, devise, bequest, endowment or other donation shall be used in the
same manner as the principal or  corpus of the gift, legacy, devise, bequest, endowment or
other donation.
(3) The State Treasurer shall  credit monthly to the fund any interest or other income
derived from the fund or from the investment of moneys in the fund.
(4) Moneys in the fund and in  any subaccount of the fund are continuously appropriated
to the Department of Transportation for the purposes specified in the gift or  donation or, if
no specific purpose is specified, for  transportation projects, as defined in ORS 367.010, se-
lected by the Oregon Transportation Commission.
SECTION 2.
The Department of Transportation may accept gifts or donations  of moneys
or property to be used for transportation projects, as defined  in ORS 367.010. Subject to the
terms specified in a gift or donation,  the Oregon Transportation Commission may authorize
use of gifts or donations in  a manner that, in the commission’s judgment, best carries out
the intent of the gift or donation.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 3704