1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2250
Sponsored by Representative FRAGALA,  Senator MANNING JR; Representatives ANDERSEN, CHOTZEN,
MCDONALD, NELSON, NOSSE, Senators FREDERICK, PHAM K, PROZANSKI (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act would have the state use the  last known address of adults in custody, if avail-
able, to create some voting districts. (Flesch Readability Score: 65.2).
Directs the Department of Corrections to determine the last-known address of adults  in custody,
if the address is readily known or available to  an adult in custody, and submit information to the
Portland State University Population  Research Center. Directs the center to adjust the population
data reported  in the federal decennial census to reflect the residence status of adults in custody
before incarceration.
Requires the Legislative Assembly or Secretary of State, whichever is applicable, to  reapportion
the state  into legislative districts based on the adjusted population data. Requires use of the ad-
justed population data to apportion county or municipal boundaries.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to redistricting.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) As used in this section:
(a) “Adult in custody” means a person committed to  the physical and legal custody of the
Department of Corrections.
(b) “County of residence” means the Oregon county in which an  adult in custody resided
before incarceration with the department, if any.
(2) The department  shall maintain an electronic filing system to record the following
demographic information for each adult in custody serving a sentence imposed  by a court in
this state:
(a) Name.
(b) Date of birth.
(c) Race and ethnicity.
(d) County of residence, if readily known to the adult in custody or the department.
(3) On or before January 1 of the year  following the federal decennial census, the de-
partment shall report to  the Portland State University Population Research Center the de-
mographic information described in subsection (2) of this section as of April 1 of  the year for
which the federal decennial census counts population.
(4) Upon publication of the federal decennial redistricting  data for this state by the
United States Census Bureau, the center shall, for the purposes described in subsections  (6)
and (7) of this  section, adjust the data by applying the demographic information received
under subsection (3) of this section as follows:
(a) For each adult in custody whose county of residence is readily known:
(A) Determine the geographic units for which population counts are reported  in the fed-
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 3561
HB 2250
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
eral decennial redistricting data that contain the address of the facility of incarceration  and
the address of the  office of the county clerk in the county of residence for the adult in cus-
tody;
(B) Modify all  relevant population counts reported in the federal decennial redistricting
data as if the adult  in custody had resided at the office of the county clerk in the county of
residence on the date of the federal decennial census; and
(C) Remove the adult in custody from any population count reported in the federal
decennial redistricting data for the geographic units that include the facility of incarceration.
(b) For each adult in custody whose county of  residence is not readily known, the center
may not undertake the modification or  removal actions described in paragraph (a) of this
subsection.
(5) Not later than 10 days after the United States Census Bureau  publishes the federal
decennial redistricting data for this state, the center  shall provide the adjusted population
data described under subsection (4) of this section to a  committee or interim committee of
the Legislative Assembly related to redistricting.
(6) The adjusted population data provided to the Legislative Assembly under subsection
(5) of this section shall be the population  data used by the Legislative Assembly or the Sec-
retary of  State, whichever is applicable, when apportioning this state into congressional and
legislative districts.
(7) The adjusted population data provided to the Legislative Assembly under subsection
(5) of this section shall be the population data used to apportion boundaries for each  public
body, as defined in ORS 174.109, in this state.
(8) The adjusted population data provided to the Legislative Assembly under subsection
(5) of  this section shall be used only to apportion this state into congressional and legislative
districts and to apportion boundaries for public bodies, and may not be used for  any other
purpose.
[2]