1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Joint Resolution 15
Sponsored by Representative EVANS
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The measure  amends the Constitution. The measure says that anyone who is appointed
to an office may not run for election to that office. The measure refers the amendment to a vote  of
the people at the next general election. (Flesch Readability Score: 62.1).
Proposes an amendment  to the Oregon Constitution to prohibit an individual who is appointed
to fill a vacancy in office from being elected to that office. Specifies the offices to which  the prohi-
bition applies.
Refers the proposed amendment to the people for their approval or rejection at the next regular
general election.
JOINT RESOLUTION
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
PARAGRAPH 1.
 The Constitution of the State of Oregon is amended by creating a new  section
12 to be added to and made a part of Article XV, such section to read:
SECTION 12. (1) An individual who is appointed to fill a vacancy in office and who serves
under appointment to that office for longer than  six months is not qualified for election to
that office at the next election at which that office is to be filled following the appointment.
(2) This section applies to any appointment to fill a vacancy in  the Legislative Assembly,
any office of judge of any court, any state elective office other than Governor, and  any office
that operates to prosecute criminal violations of law on behalf of the state.
PARAGRAPH 2. The amendment proposed by this resolution shall be submitted to the
people for their approval or rejection at the next  regular general election held throughout
this state.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 3793