1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2759
Sponsored by Representative EVANS (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act makes an office in OJD to do audits in circuit courts and report bad  behavior.
(Flesch Readability Score: 70.1).
Establishes the Office of Quality Assurance as an independent office  within the Judicial De-
partment. Directs the  office to conduct audits of noncriminal proceedings in the circuit courts and
report incidents of judicial bias or egregious behavior to  the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court and
the Commission on Judicial Fitness and Disability.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to quality assurance in the Judicial Department.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Office of Quality Assurance is established as an  independent office
within the Judicial Department.
(2) The office shall adopt rules for:
(a) Implementing a statewide randomized audit  schedule for the circuit courts that in-
cludes at least five unannounced  audits of noncriminal proceedings in each circuit court each
year.
(b) Reporting to the Chief Justice of the  Supreme Court on the quality of court pro-
ceedings for noncriminal proceedings in the circuit courts.
(c) Reporting instances of judicial bias or egregious behavior observed during  an audit
to the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court and the Commission  on Judicial Fitness and Dis-
ability within 10 business days after the incident occurred.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2488