1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2023 Regular Session
House Bill 2047
Introduced and  printed pursuant to House Rule 12.00. Presession filed (at the request of House Interim Committee
on Health Care for Representative Rob Nosse)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced.
Establishes Rare Disease Advisory Council to serve as  forum for understanding challenges faced
by patients with rare diseases and caregivers and to serve as forum for improving access to care
and insurance coverage for patients and as information resource for government and public health
decision  makers.
Directs council to annually submit report to  Governor and appropriate legislative committees
summarizing activities of council and making policy recommendations.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to the Rare Disease Advisory Council.
Whereas the medical and health care professions consider  any condition that affects fewer than
200,000 Americans to be rare; and
Whereas there are more than 7,000 known rare  diseases in the United States, affecting between
25 and 30 million Americans across a broad spectrum of medical conditions; and
Whereas patients with rare diseases face many unique  challenges every day, from obtaining an
accurate diagnosis and accessing medical specialists with knowledge of their condition to  obtaining
fair insurance coverage for their treatment and care; and
Whereas due to  small patient populations and the variety of rare diseases, it can be challenging
for state government and public health officials  to have an in-depth understanding of the rare dis-
ease community’s needs; and
Whereas this lack of awareness often contributes  to obstacles faced by patients with rare dis-
eases and their families; and
Whereas creating a  Rare Disease Advisory Council will provide a forum for patients, families
and experts across Oregon to analyze the needs of the community and  make recommendations on
public policy to address rare diseases and to aid those impacted by rare diseases; now, therefore,
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Rare Disease Advisory  Council is established for the purposes of
understanding challenges that patients with rare  diseases and caregivers face, serving as a
forum for improving access to  care and insurance coverage for patients and serving as an
information resource for government and public health decision makers.
(2) The Governor shall determine the number of members on the council and appoint
members. The council may be composed of patients,  caregivers, health care providers, health
insurance representatives, biotechnology industry representatives, researchers,  represen-
tatives of patient advocacy organizations, state government officials and public health  offi-
cials.
(3) Members may not receive compensation for  service on the council, but, subject to any
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1605
HB 2047
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
applicable laws regulating travel and other expenses of state officers and employees, may  be
reimbursed for actual and necessary travel  and other expenses incurred in the performance
of council duties with moneys available to the  council for the purpose of reimbursing the
members.
(4) The term of service for each member is four years. Members are eligible  for reap-
pointment.
(5) The council  shall elect a chairperson and a vice chairperson to serve for one-year
terms.
(6) The Oregon Health Authority shall  provide meeting facilities and administrative sup-
port to the council.
(7) The council shall meet at the call of the chair.
(8) No later than September 15 of each year, the  council shall submit a report to the
Governor and to  the appropriate committees of the Legislative Assembly that describes the
work the council has undertaken over the preceding year. The report may include recom-
mendations for policy changes and recommendations for proposed legislation that  legislative
committees or members may  choose to have introduced for consideration by the Legislative
Assembly.
SECTION 2.
On or before March 1, 2024,  members of the Rare Disease Advisory Council
must be appointed  as described in section 1 (2) of this 2023 Act. On or before May 1, 2024,
the council must begin meeting regularly.
SECTION 3. Notwithstanding section 1 (4) of this 2023 Act, one-half of the members ap-
pointed by the Governor for the initial composition of the  Rare Disease Advisory Council in
2024 shall be appointed for two-year terms.  The Governor shall identify which members serve
two-year terms and which members serve four-year terms.
[2]