1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2948
Sponsored by Representative NELSON, Senator GELSER BLOUIN; Senator PATTERSON (at the  request of Oregon
School Nurses’ Association, Advocates for Disability Supports) (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act says who, for certain reasons, can supervise a  nurse who works in a school.
(Flesch Readability Score: 84.8).
Provides that only a registered nurse may supervise a nurse in a school setting  with respect to
the practice of  nursing. Allows an individual who is not a nurse to supervise a nurse in a school
setting for purposes not related to the practice of nursing.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to schools.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) As used in this section:
(a) “Administrator” has the meaning given that term in ORS 342.120.
(b) “Nurse” means a licensed practical nurse, registered nurse or school nurse, as  those
terms are defined in ORS 336.201.
(c) “Practice of nursing” has the meaning given that term in ORS 678.010.
(2) A nurse may, pursuant to ORS 336.201, coordinate school nursing services to  ensure
care for individual students in a school to  the extent that the care is within the practice of
nursing.
(3)(a) An administrator or other  appropriate staff member may supervise a nurse for
purposes not related to the practice of nursing.
(b) Only a registered nurse may,  as related to the practice of nursing, supervise, evaluate
and assign responsibilities to a nurse.
(4) Nothing in this section:
(a) Requires a nurse to be clinically supervised in a school setting;
(b) Requires a school district  that employs a nurse to provide a clinical supervisor for
the nurse; or
(c) Prohibits an individual who is not a nurse from supervising, directing or evaluating
a nurse in a school setting with respect to matters  other than the practice of nursing, or
from conferring with a nurse with the respect to the practice of nursing.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2936