1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2997
Sponsored by Representative RUIZ, Senator GORSEK (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act requires  HECC to create a grant program for college access and success. The
Act sets the criteria for a grant to be given. (Flesch Readability Score: 79.0).
Requires the Higher Education Coordinating Commission to establish a grant program for  the
purpose of  supporting organizations to expand the scope and community reach of college access and
success programs. Details the  eligibility criteria to receive a grant and the factors the commission
must consider when awarding grants.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to higher education.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Higher  Education Coordinating Commission shall establish a grant
program for the purpose of supporting organizations to expand the scope and  community
reach of college access and success programs.
(2) In order to be eligible to receive a grant under this section, an organization must:
(a) Be a not-for-profit corporation that is tax exempt under section 501(c) of the Internal
Revenue Code;
(b) Be a community-based organization; or
(c) Be a public institution of higher education as defined in ORS 350.260.
(3) In  awarding grants under this section, the commission shall consider whether an eli-
gible organization under subsection (2) of this section has a demonstrated  history of provid-
ing:
(a) Successful college access and success programs; and
(b) Programs and services to populations that are  historically underrepresented in post-
secondary institutions of education.
(4) The commission  shall adopt any rules necessary for the administration of this section,
including any rules related to:
(a) Specifying the form and timelines for submitting an application for a  grant under this
section;
(b) Determining whether an organization is eligible for a grant under this section;
(c) Calculating the amount to award to grant recipients under this section; and
(d) Collecting data required to evaluate program effectiveness.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1625