1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
81st OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2021 Regular Session
House Bill 2893
Sponsored by Representative EVANS; Representatives LEWIS, MEEK, WILLIAMS (at  the request of former Rep-
resentative Carla Piluso) (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced.
Establishes Oregon Disaster Response Assistance Matching Fund. Provides  that moneys in fund
may be used to issue grants to local governments to  make matching contributions necessary to ac-
cess federal aid or to assist or support disaster response efforts.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to disaster response.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Oregon Disaster Response Assistance Matching Fund is  established
in the  State Treasury, separate and distinct from the General Fund. The Oregon Disaster
Response Assistance Matching Fund consists of  moneys appropriated, allocated, deposited
or transferred to the fund by the Legislative Assembly  or otherwise. Moneys in the fund are
continuously appropriated to the Oregon Military Department, for  the Office of Emergency
Management, for the purposes specified in subsections (2) and (3) of this section.
(2) When the receipt of federal grants or other federal aid related to disaster  response
is conditioned on the contribution of  matching funds by the recipient, the office may provide
grants from the fund to local governments to be used to contribute such matching funds.
(3) The office may provide grants from the fund to local governments in order to  assist
or support disaster response efforts.
(4) The office may adopt rules necessary for the administration of this section.
(5) As used in this section, “local government” has the meaning given that  term in ORS
174.116.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 277