1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Joint Memorial 1
Printed pursuant to  Senate Interim Rule 213.28 by order of the President of the Senate in conformance with pre-
session filing rules,  indicating neither advocacy nor opposition on the part of the President (at the request
of Senate Interim Committee on Veterans, Emergency Management, Federal and World Affairs)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Urges Congress to protect rights of armed forces and their families. (Flesch Readability
Score: 72.6).
Urges Congress to conduct  public hearings on anti-military bias and improve enforcement of
hate-crime protections for military families.
JOINT MEMORIAL
To the President of the United States and the Senate and the House of Representatives of the United
States of America, in Congress assembled:
We, your memorialists,  the Eighty-third Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon, in legisla-
tive session assembled, respectfully represent as follows:
Whereas the State of Oregon is  obligated to “ensure the human dignity of all people within this
state and  protect their health, safety and morals from the consequences of intergroup hostility,
tensions and practices of unlawful discrimination of any kind” (ORS 659A.003); and
Whereas Americans are entitled  under the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Consti-
tution to “equal protection of the laws” of our nation; and
Whereas section 4712 of the Matthew Shepard and James Byrd Jr.  Hate Crimes Prevention Act
of 2009, known as the Soldiers Amendment (18 U.S.C. 1389),  includes protections for military fami-
lies; and
Whereas a hate or bias crime likely occurred in Oregon  when American Legion Post 10 in
Albany was burned to the ground on July 4, 2010; and
Whereas the  United States Department of Justice has chosen not to charge multiple domestic
terrorists for hate crimes under 18 U.S.C. 1389; and
Whereas criminal enhancements  for hate crimes are necessary because a crime motivated by
bias “devastates  not just the actual victim and the family and friends of the victim, but frequently
savages the community sharing the  traits that caused the victim to be selected” (34 U.S.C. 30501);
and
Whereas military families, by their sacrifice of blood, sweat and tears,  secure American rights
and freedoms while being at elevated risk of suicide; and
Whereas hate crimes against military families cannot be deterred  without public awareness of
the anti-military bias motivating them; and
Whereas failing to enforce 18 U.S.C. 1389 deprives military families of their civil rights; and
Whereas the United States Department of Justice has previously  ignored a Congressional in-
quiry from Representative David Trone of Maryland on this matter; and
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2984
SJM 1
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
Whereas Senator Ron Wyden of Oregon sent a Congressional  inquiry to United States Attorney
General Merrick Garland on this matter on October 4, 2024, but to date no action has been taken
in response to that inquiry; and
Whereas Oregon law  enforcement agencies cannot meaningfully fulfill their statutory obligations
without federal guidance and support, which the United States Department of Justice  has not pro-
vided regarding 18 U.S.C. 1389; now, therefore,
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
That we, the members of the Eighty-third Legislative Assembly, respectfully  urge the Congress
of the United States to conduct  public hearings on anti-military bias and improve enforcement of
hate-crime protections for military families; and be it further
Resolved, That a copy of this memorial shall  be sent to the President of the United States, the
Senate Majority Leader, the Speaker of the House  of Representatives and each member of the
Oregon Congressional Delegation.
[2]