1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 899
Sponsored by Senator NASH, Representative LEVY B; Representative HARBICK
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act raises the age when a person may receive some gender-affirming  treatments to
18 years of age. (Flesch Readability Score: 61.6).
Prohibits physicians from  performing irreversible gender reassignment surgery on a minor.
Creates exceptions.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to gender reassignment surgery.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
Section 2 of this 2025 Act is added to and made a part of ORS chapter 677.
SECTION 2. (1) As used in this section:
(a) “Biological sex” means the biological indication of male or female  in the context of
reproductive potential or capacity, such as sex chromosomes,  naturally occurring sex
hormones, gonads and nonambiguous internal and external genitalia present at  birth without
regard to a person’s psychological, chosen or subjective experience of gender.
(b) “Gender” means the psychological, behavioral, social and cultural aspects  of being
male or female.
(c) “Gender transition” means the process  involving any social, legal or physical changes
by which a person goes from identifying with and living as a gender that corresponds to the
person’s biological sex to identifying with and living  as a gender different from the person’s
biological sex.
(2) Notwithstanding ORS 435.210, a physician may not perform any of the following pro-
cedures on a person under 18 years of age for the purpose of assisting the person with  an
irreversible gender transition:
(a) Penectomy,  orchiectomy, vaginoplasty, clitoroplasty or vulvoplasty for a biologically
male person or hysterectomy or oophorectomy for a biologically female person.
(b) Metoidioplasty, phalloplasty, vaginectomy, scrotoplasty or  implantation of erection or
testicular prostheses for a biologically female person.
(c) Augmentation mammoplasty  for a biologically male person or subcutaneous
mastectomy for a biologically female person.
(3) Notwithstanding subsection (2) of this section, a physician  may provide the following
necessary services and medical treatment to a person under 18 years of age:
(a) Services to a person born with a medically verifiable disorder of sex  development,
including a person with ambiguous external biological sex characteristics, such  as being born
with 46 XX chromosomes with virilization or 46 XY chromosomes with undervirilization  or
having both ovarian and testicular tissue.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1239
SB 899
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
(b) Services provided when a physician has otherwise diagnosed  a disorder of sex devel-
opment and has determined through genetic or biochemical testing that the  person does not
have normal sex  chromosome structure, sex steroid hormone production or sex steroid
hormone action.
(c) The treatment of any infection, injury, disease or disorder  that has been caused or
exacerbated by the performance of a gender transition procedure, whether or not the gender
transition procedure was performed in accordance with state and federal law.
(d) Any procedure undertaken because the person suffers from a physical  disorder,
physical injury or physical illness that would, as diagnosed by a physician, place  the person
in imminent danger of death  or impairment of major bodily function or death unless surgery
is performed.
[2]