1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 967
Sponsored by Senators BROADMAN, NASH; Representative LEVY E
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act would let local bodies enter into an  IGA that says how they will deal with a
local improvement in a city’s UGB. (Flesch Readability Score: 62.6).
Authorizes local governments to enter into agreements governing local  improvements proposed
for unincorporated areas within a city’s urban growth boundary.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to local improvements; amending ORS 223.389.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 223.389 is amended to read:
223.389. (1)(a) The governing body of a local government may prescribe by  ordinance or resol-
ution the procedure to be followed in making estimated assessments and final assessments  for ben-
efits from a local improvement upon the lots that have been  benefited by all or part of the local
improvement, to the extent  that the charter of the local government does not prescribe the method
of procedure.
(b) [ In addition, in any case where ] If the charter of a  local government specifies a method of
procedure that does not comply or is not consistent with  the requirements of the Oregon Constitu-
tion, the governing body of the local government may prescribe by ordinance or resolution the pro-
cedure that shall comply and be consistent with the  requirements of the Oregon Constitution, and
the provisions of the ordinance or resolution shall apply in lieu of the charter provisions.
(2)(a) This subsection  applies to a local improvement proposed for an unincorporated area
within a city’s urban growth boundary.
(b) For purposes of subsection (1) of this section, the governing bodies of local govern-
ments in which any part of a local improvement described in  paragraph (a) of this subsection
is located may enter into an intergovernmental agreement in accordance with ORS chapter
190 to allocate jurisdictional authority among themselves for the local improvement.
[(2)(a)] (3)(a) The ordinance or resolution  prescribing the procedure shall provide for adoption
or enactment of an ordinance or resolution designating the local improvement as to  which an as-
sessment is contemplated,  describing the boundaries of the district to be assessed. Provision shall
be made for at least 10 days’ notice to  owners of property within the proposed district in which the
local improvement is contemplated. The  notice may be made by posting, by newspaper publication
or by mail, or by any combination of such methods.  The notice shall specify the time and place
where the governing body will hear and consider objections or remonstrances  to the proposed local
improvement by any parties aggrieved thereby.
(b) If the governing body determines that the local improvement  shall be made, when the esti-
mated cost thereof is ascertained on the basis of the contract award or the departmental cost of  the
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 4227
SB 967
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
local government, the  governing body shall determine whether the property benefited shall bear all
or a portion of the  cost. The recorder or other person designated by the governing body shall pre-
pare the estimated assessment to the respective  lots within the assessment district and file it in the
appropriate office of the local government. Notice  of the estimated assessment shall be mailed or
personally delivered to the owner of each lot  proposed to be assessed. The notice shall state the
amounts of the estimated assessment proposed on that property and shall fix a  date by which time
objections shall be filed with the recorder. Any objection shall state the grounds  for the objection.
The governing  body shall consider the objections and grounds and may adopt, correct, modify or
revise the estimated assessments.
(c) The  governing body shall determine the amount of estimated assessment to be charged
against each lot within the district, according to the  special and peculiar benefits accruing to the
lot from the  local improvement, and shall by ordinance or resolution spread the estimated assess-
ments.
[2]