1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Joint Resolution 28
Sponsored by Senator GOLDEN,  Representatives ANDERSEN, GAMBA, Senators MANNING JR, PROZANSKI,
Representative TRAN; Senators CAMPOS, FREDERICK, JAMA, MEEK, PHAM  K, REYNOLDS, TAYLOR,
Representatives CHAICHI, FRAGALA, HARTMAN, HELM, HUDSON, MARSH, NELSON, NOSSE (Presession
filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: This JR proposes  a change to the constitution to create a right to a clean, safe and
healthy environment. (Flesch Readability Score: 62.8).
Proposes an amendment to the Oregon Constitution to establish a  fundamental right to a clean,
safe and healthy environment.
Refers the proposed amendment to the people for their approval or rejection at the next regular
general election held throughout this state.
JOINT RESOLUTION
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
PARAGRAPH 1.
 The Constitution of the State of Oregon is amended by creating a new  section
48 to be added to and made a part of Article I, such section to read:
SECTION 48. (1) All  people, including children and future generations, have the funda-
mental right to a clean, safe and healthy environment.
(2) The state shall protect and restore this right equitably for all people, giving the
highest priority to the safety and health of children and future generations.
(3) Any person may obtain  equitable relief against state action or inaction allowing harm
or the threat of harm to public safety and health interests in this right. Courts shall consider
sustainable measures toward clean water, clean air, thriving  ecosystems and a more stable
climate to be compelling state interests entitled  to paramount consideration and weight.
Prevailing parties securing protection for public safety or health interests in this  right shall
be entitled to costs of litigation, including attorney and expert witness fees.
(4) This right is enforceable upon enactment, without implementing legislation or ex-
haustion of other  remedies. This right is remedial in purpose, adding to and strengthening
existing rights and remedies to achieve a healthy environment for all.
PARAGRAPH 2. The amendment proposed by this resolution shall be submitted to the
people for their approval or rejection at the next  regular general election held throughout
this state.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2562