1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
79th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2017 Regular Session
House Joint Resolution 8
Sponsored by Representative PARRISH; Representative NEARMAN (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Proposes  amendment to Oregon Constitution to require that moneys appropriated by Legislative
Assembly for distribution based on student numbers or student characteristics be used  for education
of students for which moneys are distributed.
Refers proposed amendment to people for their approval or rejection at next  regular general
election.
JOINT RESOLUTION
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
PARAGRAPH 1.  The Constitution of the State of Oregon is amended by creating a new  section
9 to be added to and made a part of Article VIII, such section to read:
SECTION 9. (1) Notwithstanding section 5, Article I of this Constitution, all  moneys ap-
propriated by the Legislative Assembly for distribution based on student numbers or student
characteristics shall be used for the education of the students for which the  moneys are
distributed, regardless of the education provider or the method by which the student receives
the education.
(2) Nothing in this section prevents an education  provider from retaining a percentage
of the moneys distributed as described in  subsection (1) of this section for administrative
costs, as long as the amounts are retained equally for:
(a) All students for which the  education provider receives moneys, if the moneys are
distributed based on student numbers; or
(b) All students of the same characteristic for which the education provider receives
moneys, if the moneys are distributed based on student characteristics.
PARAGRAPH 2. The amendment proposed by this resolution shall be submitted to  the
people for their approval or rejection  at the next regular general election held throughout
this state.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2138