1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2924
Introduced and printed pursuant to  House Rule 12.00. Presession filed (at the request of Governor Tina Kotek for
Oregon Health Authority)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act makes changes to the SOCAC membership. (Flesch Readability Score: 71.8).
Modifies the number and description of members on the System of Care Advisory Council.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to the System of Care Advisory Council; amending ORS 418.978.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 418.978 is amended to read:
418.978. (1) A commission known as the System of Care Advisory Council is established.
(2) The council consists of [ 25] 29 members appointed as follows:
(a) The Chief Justice of the Supreme Court shall appoint  one representative from the Judicial
Department.
(b) The Governor shall appoint:
(A) Two members who are representatives of the  Department of Human Services with extensive
knowledge of systems of care, one of whom must have direct experience with  intellectual and de-
velopmental disabilities programs.
(B) One member who is a representative of the Oregon Youth Authority  with extensive knowl-
edge of systems of care.
(C) One member who is a representative of the Oregon Health Authority with  extensive knowl-
edge of systems of care.
(D) One member who is a representative of the Department of Education.
(E) Two members who  are representatives of coordinated care organizations meeting the criteria
adopted by the Oregon  Health Authority under ORS 414.572, at least one of which must provide
services to rural communities.
(F) One psychiatrist, one psychologist and one pediatric physician, each of whom must have
clinical experience with youth.
(G) One member who is a representative of an entity that offers commercial insurance.
(H) Three members who are representatives of agencies that  provide different services and
supports to youth and families of youth.
(I) One member who is a representative of organizations that advocate for youth.
(J) One member who is a representative of organizations that advocate for families of youth.
(K) [ Two] Four  members of the public, each of whom are family members of:
(i) Persons with intellectual or developmental disabilities or mental illness; or
(ii) Persons who  are currently or were previously in the foster care system or the youth criminal
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 429
HB 2924
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
justice system.
(L) [ Two] Four  members of the public who are no more than 25 years of age at the time of  ap-
pointment or reappointment and who:
(i) Are persons with intellectual or developmental disabilities or mental illness; or
(ii) Are  currently or were previously [ a ward, youth or adjudicated youth, as those terms are de-
fined in ORS 419A.004 ] involved with the child welfare or juvenile justice system .
(M) One member who is a county juvenile department director.
(N) One member who is a county mental health program director.
(O) One member who is a member of a federally recognized Indian tribe in this state  or a
designee of the Indian tribe.
(P) One  member who is a representative of Oregon’s federally mandated disability protection and
advocacy agency.
(3) The term of office of each member  of the council is four years, but a member serves at the
pleasure of the appointing authority. Before the expiration of the term of a member, a  successor
shall be appointed whose term  begins on January 2 next following. A member is eligible for reap-
pointment to  one additional term. If there is a vacancy for any cause, the appointing authority shall
make an appointment to become immediately effective for the unexpired term.
(4)(a) Members of the council who are not state  employees are not entitled to compensation or
reimbursement for expenses and serve as volunteers on the council.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this subsection,  members of the council described in sub-
section (2)(b)(K) and (L) of this section may be reimbursed  for travel and other reasonable expenses
associated with serving on the council.
(5) Members of the council who are state employees carrying out their state employment  func-
tions are entitled to compensation and reimbursement by their  employing agencies for actual and
necessary travel and other  expenses incurred by them in the performance of their official duties as
members of the council.
(6) The Governor shall appoint one of the members as chairperson, to serve at the pleasure of
the Governor.  The members of the council shall elect from among themselves a vice chairperson
who shall preside  over meetings and exercise the functions of the chairperson during the absence
or disability of the chairperson. The chairperson and the vice chairperson shall execute the duties
determined by the council to be necessary.
(7) The council shall appoint an executive director who shall be in the exempt service  and who
shall be responsible for the performance of duties assigned by  the council. Subject to the State
Personnel Relations Law, the executive director may employ appropriate staff to carry out the du-
ties assigned by the council.
(8) The council shall meet at least  four times per year at a place, day and hour determined by
the council.
(9) A majority of the members  of the council constitutes a quorum for the transaction of busi-
ness.
[2]