1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
79th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2017 Regular Session
Senate Bill 334
Printed pursuant to  Senate Interim Rule 213.28 by order of the President of the Senate in conformance with pre-
session filing rules,  indicating neither advocacy nor opposition on the part of the President (at the request
of Senate Interim Committee on Business and Transportation)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Requires State Department of Energy to develop and maintain inventory of biogas and
renewable natural gas resources available to this state.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to renewable natural gas.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) As used in this section:
(a) “Biogas” means gas  that is generated from organic waste or other organic materials
through anaerobic digestion, gasification, pyrolysis or other technology that converts organic
waste to gas.
(b) “Renewable natural gas” is biogas that has been processed to be interchangeable  with
conventional natural gas for the purpose of meeting pipeline  quality standards or transpor-
tation fuel grade requirements.
(2) The State Department of Energy shall develop and  maintain an inventory of biogas
and renewable natural gas resources available to this  state. The inventory must include, but
need not be limited to:
(a) A list of the potential biogas and renewable natural gas sources in this state and  the
estimated potential production quantities available at each source;
(b) An estimate of the energy content of listed potential biogas and renewable natural
gas sources; and
(c) An estimate of the range of technologies  available to this state for renewable natural
gas production by conversion technologies such as anaerobic  digestion and thermal
gasification.
(3) The department  shall utilize the inventory required by this section, and any other
relevant information as  considered necessary by the department, to develop and periodically
revise an estimate of:
(a) The production potential, and associated economic potential, of renewable natural  gas
in this state for use:
(A) As a transportation fuel in the form  of compressed natural gas or liquefied natural
gas; and
(B) By residential, commercial and industrial consumers of natural gas;
(b) The potential for the use of  renewable natural gas in this state to reduce carbon
dioxide emissions;
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1751
SB 334
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
(c) The potential for biogas or renewable natural gas  production efforts in this state to
generate carbon offsets; and
(d) The  technical, market and regulatory barriers to developing and operating renewable
natural gas projects in this state.
(4) The department shall appoint an  advisory committee to assist in developing the in-
ventory required by this section. The committee must include  but not be limited to persons
familiar with the renewable  natural gas industry. The committee shall make recommen-
dations to the department:
(a) Regarding the economic and technological viability of sources and  processes for
producing renewable natural gas;
(b) For developing a system  for tracking renewable natural gas as it enters and exits the
pipeline; and
(c) On any other matters related to developing the inventory required by  this section,
as requested by the department.
[2]