81st OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2021 Regular Session
Enrolled
House Bill 2145
Introduced and printed pursuant to House  Rule 12.00. Presession filed (at the request of Governor
Kate Brown for Water Resources Department)
CHAPTER .................................................
AN ACT
Relating to the performance of work on wells; creating new provisions; and  amending ORS 536.090,
536.750, 536.900, 537.545, 537.747, 537.753, 537.762, 537.763, 537.765, 537.780, 537.789 and 537.791
and sections 2 and 7, chapter 496, Oregon Laws 2001.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1. Sections 2 and 3 of this 2021 Act are added to and made a part of ORS 537.747
to 537.795.
SECTION 2. The Water Well Abandonment, Repair and Replacement Fund is established
in the State Treasury, separate  and distinct from the General Fund. Interest earned by the
Water  Well  Abandonment, Repair and Replacement Fund shall be credited to the fund.
Moneys in the fund are continuously appropriated to the Water Resources Department for
the purpose  of carrying out the program purposes described in section 3 of this 2021 Act.
The fund shall consist  of any moneys designated for deposit in the fund or for carrying out
the program purposes, including but  not limited to appropriations or other provisions of
moneys by the Legislative Assembly and public or private moneys from  gifts, grants or do-
nations.
SECTION 3.
(1) As used in this section, “repair” may include, but is  not limited to, a well
deepening.
(2) Moneys  in the Water Well Abandonment, Repair and Replacement Fund may be dis-
bursed under authority of the Water Resources Director  for the purposes described in this
section. The Water Resources Department may disburse moneys from the  fund to provide
financial assistance:
(a) To a person, as defined in ORS 536.007, or member  of a federally recognized Indian
tribe in Oregon to permanently abandon a water well or to repair or  replace a water well
that is used for household purposes;
(b) To nonprofit, governmental or other  institutions that meet qualifications established
by Water Resources Commission rules,  for programs to permanently abandon water wells
and to repair or replace water wells used for household purposes;
(c) As cost-sharing with other programs  to permanently abandon water wells and to re-
pair or replace water wells used for household purposes; or
(d) To pay the cost of direct services  of a water well constructor licensed under ORS
537.747 to purchase necessary materials and perform the work  needed for abandoning, re-
pairing or replacing water wells that are eligible under this section.
Enrolled House Bill 2145 (HB 2145-B) Page 1
(3) Except as provided in subsection  (4) of this section, financial assistance provided un-
der subsection (2) of this section may not exceed:
(a) 75 percent of the cost to permanently abandon a water well;
(b) 75 percent of the cost to repair or to  replace a water well used for household pur-
poses; or
(c) 50 percent  of the cost of developing a program to permanently abandon, repair or
replace water wells, when paid to an institution described in subsection (2)(b) of this section.
(4) Notwithstanding subsection (3) of this section, financial assistance provided under
subsection (2) of this section to an individual with lower income, as defined by the  depart-
ment, may cover the full cost of the materials or work described in  subsection (2) of this
section.
(5) An expenditure from the fund is subject to at least one of the following purposes:
(a) The  permanent abandonment, repair or replacement of water wells in which defi-
ciencies in the well construction might:
(A) Result in waste, loss of artesian pressure or ground water declines;
(B) Serve as a conduit for contamination; or
(C) Otherwise be a detriment to public health or safety.
(b) The  repair or replacement of water wells used for household purposes by persons of
lower or moderate income.
(c) The replacement of water wells  used for household purposes in areas of declining
ground water levels where other sources of water for household purposes are not feasible.
(d) The abandonment, repair or replacement of  water wells consistent with water re-
sources management purposes specified by rule by the commission.
(e) The abandonment, repair or replacement of water wells damaged due to natural dis-
asters.
(6) If the department provides funding to an institution under subsection (2)(b)  of this
section, the department shall require that the institution:
(a) Use accounting, auditing  and fiscal procedures that conform with generally accepted
government accounting standards;
(b) Give preference to persons of  lower or moderate income and to small businesses that
do not qualify for other financing;
(c) Demonstrate past  success in offering, underwriting, servicing and managing loans or
grants to:
(A) Persons of lower or moderate income; or
(B) Persons representing a wide range of qualifications for credit; and
(d) Have a plan for engaging other stakeholders in outreach  and marketing efforts for a
loan or grant program.
(7) The  department may enter into contracts, intergovernmental agreements or other
arrangements with public or private entities for any purposes consistent with this section.
(8) The commission may adopt rules to implement this section, including rules that:
(a) Prioritize the issuance of  the funding for a purpose described in subsection (5) of this
section.
(b) Establish a preference for providing the funding to  individuals of moderate or lower
income.
(c) Establish that the  funding may only be provided to individuals of moderate or lower
income.
SECTION 4.
 ORS 536.090 is amended to read:
536.090. (1) In carrying out the duties, functions  and powers prescribed by law, the Water Re-
sources Commission shall appoint a ground water advisory committee to:
(a) Advise the commission on all matters relating to:
(A) Rules for the development, securing, use and protection of ground water; and
(B) Licensing of well constructors, including the examination of such persons for license.
Enrolled House Bill 2145 (HB 2145-B) Page 2
(b) Review the proposed expenditure of all revenues  generated under ORS 537.762 [ (5)]. At least
once each year, and before the expenditure of such funds on new program activities,  the Water
Resources Department and the ground  water advisory committee shall develop jointly a proposed
expenditure plan for concurrence by the Water Resources Commission. The  plan may be modified,
if necessary, upon the joint recommendation of the department and the ground water  advisory
committee with concurrence by the commission.
(2) The committee shall consist of nine members who represent  a range of interests or expertise.
At least three of the members shall be individuals actively engaged in some aspect of the  water
supply or monitoring well drilling industry. Members shall serve for such terms as  the commission
may specify. The committee shall meet at least once every three months and at other  times and
places as the commission may specify.
(3) A member of the  committee shall not receive compensation, but at the discretion of the
commission may be reimbursed for travel expenses incurred, subject to ORS 292.495.
SECTION 5.  ORS 536.750 is amended to read:
536.750. (1) Notwithstanding any provision of ORS chapters 536 to  543A, after a declaration that
a severe, continuing drought exists, the Water Resources Commission may:
(a) Issue without first conducting a hearing under ORS 537.170, a  temporary permit for an
emergency use of water;
(b) Allow a temporary change  in use, place of use or point of diversion of water without com-
plying with the notice and waiting requirements under ORS 540.520;
(c) Notwithstanding the priority of water rights, grant preference of use to rights for  human
consumption or stock watering use;
(d) Waive the notice requirements under ORS 537.753  and the [ report] start card required under
ORS 537.762;
(e) Allow a temporary exchange  of water without giving notice as required under ORS 540.535;
and
(f) Utilize an expedited notice and waiting requirement established by rule for the substitution
of a supplemental ground water right  for a primary water right under drought conditions in place
of the notice and waiting requirement provided in ORS 540.524.
(2) The commission by rule may establish procedures for carrying out the provisions of this
section and a schedule of fees that must accompany a request under subsection (1) of this section.
SECTION 6.  ORS 537.747 is amended to read:
537.747. (1) No  person shall advertise services to construct, alter, abandon or convert wells, of-
fer to enter or enter into a contract with another person or public agency to construct, alter,
abandon or convert a well for such other  person, cause any well construction, alteration, abandon-
ment or conversion to be performed under such a contract or operate well drilling machinery with-
out possessing  a water well constructor’s license therefor in good standing issued by the Water
Resources Department. The department shall adopt a single water well constructor’s license  that
may specify the  type of well, type of well alteration or construction or type of well drilling machine
operation for which the water well constructor is qualified.
(2) Notwithstanding subsection (1) of this section, a person may operate  a well drilling machine
without a water well constructor’s license if supervised by one who possesses such a license.
(3) A person shall be qualified to receive a water well constructor’s license if the person:
(a) Is at least 18 years of age.
(b) Has passed a written examination conducted by the  department to determine fitness to op-
erate as a water well constructor.
(c) Has paid a license fee and an examination fee according to the fee schedule set forth under
subsection (6) of this section.
(d) Has one year or more experience in the operation of well drilling machinery.
(e) Provides evidence that the person  has completed an arc welding training course from
a community college, received a professional welding certification, passed  a welding profi-
ciency test or otherwise completed professional welding training.
Enrolled House Bill 2145 (HB 2145-B) Page 3
(4) Upon fulfillment of all the requirements set out in subsection (3)  of this section, the depart-
ment shall issue the applicant a water well constructor’s license in a form prescribed by  the de-
partment. The license may be issued for a period of two years.
(5) A water well constructor’s license shall expire on June  30 or on such date as may be spec-
ified by department rule. A person may renew a license by submitting  an application and the ap-
propriate fees any time before  the license expires but not later than one year after the license
expires. A person who renews a license within the 12  months after the license expires may either
pay a penalty fee set forth under subsection  (6)(d) of this section or requalify for a water well
constructor’s  license  in accordance with subsection (3) of this section. If a person fails to renew a
license within 12 months after expiration,  the person must comply with the requirements of sub-
section (3) of this section for a new water well constructor’s license.
(6) The department shall collect in advance the following fees:
(a) An examination fee of $20.
(b) A license fee of $150.
(c) A renewal fee of $150 , if the license is renewed on or before the expiration date .
(d) Unless a person requalifies for a water well  constructor’s license in accordance with sub-
section (3) of  this section, a water well constructor shall pay a renewal fee of $250 if [ the] an ex-
pired license is renewed [ within] on or before  12 months after the expiration  date.
(e) If a  person requalifies for a water well constructor’s license under subsection (3) of this
section, the person shall pay the renewal fee established under paragraph (c) of this subsection.
(7) The department may revoke, suspend or refuse to renew any  water well constructor’s license
when it  appears to the satisfaction of the department, after notice and opportunity to be heard by
the licensee, that the licensee has failed to comply with the provisions of ORS 537.505  to 537.795
and 537.992 applicable to such licensee or  any order or rule adopted thereunder applicable to such
licensee, or has made a material misrepresentation or  material misstatement of  fact on an appli-
cation for a license or well log or established a pattern of conduct that willfully  or negligently vi-
olates any provision of ORS 537.505  to 537.795 and 537.992, or any rule adopted pursuant thereto,
applicable to such licensee.
(8) The [ provisions of ] requirement in  subsection (3) (d) of this section [ requiring one year or
more experience in the operation of well drilling machinery do ] does  not apply to  any person who,
on July 1, 1981, holds the license required by  this section and who continues thereafter to maintain
the license in good standing.
(9) The requirement in subsection (3)(e) of this section does not apply to  any person who,
on July 1, 2023, holds the license  required by this section and who continues thereafter to
maintain the license in good standing.
(10) If the department observes a welding deficiency on a well,  the department may order
the licensee who welded the well to, within a reasonable time, complete an arc  welding
training course from a community college, acquire  a professional welding certification, pass
a welding proficiency test or otherwise complete professional welding training.
[(9)] (11)  The fees collected under subsection (6) of this section shall be paid into the Water
Resources  Department  Water Right Operating Fund. Such moneys are continuously appropriated to
the Water Resources Department to pay the department’s expenses  in administering and enforcing
the water well constructor’s licensing program.
SECTION 7.
 ORS 537.753 is amended to read:
537.753. (1) Any person who contracts or offers services to contract to construct, alter, abandon
or convert wells shall have in effect a surety bond or  an irrevocable letter of credit issued by an
insured institution, as defined in  ORS 706.008, running to the State of Oregon in the sum of $20,000,
ensuring that in the construction,  alteration, abandonment or conversion of wells, the principal shall
comply with all the provisions of ORS  537.505 to 537.795 and 537.992 that are applicable to such
construction, alteration, abandonment or conversion and to the rules and standards of well con-
struction, alteration, abandonment and conversion that have been prescribed by the Water Re-
Enrolled House Bill 2145 (HB 2145-B) Page 4
sources Commission. The bond or letter of credit shall be filed  with the Water Resources
Commission.
(2) The Water Resources Commission or any person injured by failure of a water well
constructor to comply with the provisions of the bond or letter of credit has  a right of action on the
bond or letter of credit in the name of the injured  person. However, the aggregate liability of the
surety or letter of credit issuer to all such persons may not  exceed the sum of the bond or letter
of credit.
(3) A proceeding against the bond or letter of credit under subsection (2)  of this section may
not be commenced unless the commission notifies the water well  constructor of the alleged violation
within three years after the date the water well report is filed with the commission.
(4) If a well is to be constructed,  altered, abandoned or converted by a person that is not li-
censed under ORS 537.747 on property owned by that person, the person shall  obtain a permit from
the commission before beginning work. Application for the permit shall be in  the form prescribed
by the commission and must be accompanied by a fee of $500. At the time [ the permit is obtained, ]
of filing the permit,  the applicant also  shall [ file with ] submit to  the commission a bond or an
irrevocable letter of credit issued by an insured institution as defined in ORS  706.008 running to the
State of Oregon in the sum of $10,000, ensuring that in the construction, alteration, abandonment
or conversion  of the well the landowner shall comply with all the provisions of ORS 537.505 to
537.795 and 537.992  that are applicable to the construction, alteration, abandonment or conversion
of wells and to the  rules and standards of well construction, alteration, abandonment and conversion
that have been prescribed by the commission. Before the person  who constructs, alters, abandons
or converts a  well referred to in this subsection seals the well, the person must give 10 days’ written
notice [ of the construction,  alteration, abandonment or conversion to the commission ] to the Water
Resources Department so department personnel can  be present to observe the work . After
expiration of the notice period, the well may be sealed even if the [ commission] department has not
caused the well to be inspected.
SECTION 8.
 ORS 537.762 is amended to read:
537.762. (1) Each person required to possess a license  under ORS 537.747 who has entered into
a contract to construct, alter, abandon or convert  a well or cause a well to be constructed, altered,
abandoned or converted shall, before beginning work on the well, make a report  to the Water Re-
sources Commission containing:
(a) The name and post-office address of the owner of the well.
(b) The approximate location of the well.
(c) The proposed depth and diameter of the well.
(d) The proposed purpose or use of the ground water from the well.
(2) The commission shall furnish a convenient means for submitting the reports referred  to in
subsection (1) of this section to each person who possesses a license under ORS 537.747.
(3) A separate report shall be furnished under subsection (1) of this section for  each well that
is constructed, altered, abandoned or converted.
(4) The report furnished under subsection (1) of this section  shall be confidential and maintained
as such for one year or until  the well log required under ORS 537.765 is received by the commission,
whichever is earlier. Nothing in this subsection prohibits  the commission from using the report for
enforcement actions during the period the report is considered confidential.
(5) Each report form submitted under subsection (1) of this section for  the construction of a new
well, deepening of an existing well, or conversion of a well shall be accompanied by  a fee of [ $225]
$350. Notwithstanding the fee established pursuant  to this subsection, the commission may adopt by
rule a reduced fee for persons submitting materials to the  Water Resources Department in a digital
format approved by the department.
(6) The moneys paid to the commission under subsection (5) of this  section shall be paid into the
Water Resources Department Operating Fund. All interest, if any,  from moneys received under
subsection (5) of this section shall inure to the benefit of  the Water Resources Department. Such
Enrolled House Bill 2145 (HB 2145-B) Page 5
moneys and interest  earned on such moneys are continuously appropriated to the department to be
used to pay the costs of the department  to employ personnel to inspect wells and well construction.
SECTION 9.  ORS 537.762, as amended by section 8 of this 2021 Act, is amended to read:
537.762. (1) As used in this section:
(a) “Licensed or permitted person” means a  person licensed under ORS 537.747 or per-
mitted under ORS 537.753 (4).
(b) “Start card” means a form containing all information required by  the Water Re-
sources Department as a notification that a licensed or permitted person  will commence
work on a well.
[(1)] (2) Each [ person required to possess a license under ORS 537.747 ] licensed or permitted
person who has entered into  a contract to construct, alter, abandon or convert a well or cause a
well to be constructed, altered, abandoned or converted shall, not earlier than 60 days and  not
later than 72 hours  before beginning work on the well, [ make a report ] submit a start card  to the
[Water Resources Commission ] department containing:
(a) The name , telephone number, electronic mail address  and post-office address of the owner
of the well.
(b) The approximate  location of the well  by county tax lot number, township, range, section
and nearest quarter-quarter section .
(c) The street address nearest to the proposed well.
(d) The latitude and longitude of the well as established by a global positioning system.
[(c)] (e)  The proposed depth and diameter of the well.
[(d)] (f)  The proposed purpose or use of the ground water from the proposed well.
(g) The time frame proposed for beginning and completing the construction,  alteration,
abandonment or conversion.
(h) The time frame proposed for annular seal placement.
(i) The well identification label number, if assigned.
(j) The water right application, permit or certificate number, if applicable.
(k) The original well log number, if applicable.
(L) The type of work proposed.
(m) Notification of any need for special standards.
(n) The signature and license number,  if applicable, of the bonded and licensed or per-
mitted person who would undertake the work.
(o) For an existing well, the current purpose  or use of the well and the existing depth
and diameter of the well.
[(2) The  commission shall furnish a convenient means for submitting the reports referred to in
subsection (1) of this section to each person who possesses a license under ORS 537.747. ]
(3) The department shall furnish a convenient means for licensed or permitted persons
to submit start card information under this section.
[(3)] (4) A separate [ report shall be furnished under subsection (1) of this section ] start card is
required for each well that is constructed, altered, abandoned or converted.
[(4)] (5) [ The report  furnished under subsection (1) of ] A start card submitted under  this sec-
tion shall be confidential and maintained as such for  one year or until the well log required under
ORS 537.765 is  received by the [ commission] department, whichever is earlier. Nothing in this
subsection prohibits the [ commission] department from  using [ the report ] a start card  for enforce-
ment actions during the period the [ report] start card  is [ considered] confidential.
(6) On the date that work on the well commences, the  licensed or permitted person shall,
before commencing work, notify the department that the  work is about to commence. If the
proposed date of seal placement is not the date proposed on the start card required  by this
section, the licensed or permitted person  shall notify the department of the change at least
four hours before placing the seal.
Enrolled House Bill 2145 (HB 2145-B) Page 6
(7) The Water Resources Commission  may adopt rules establishing precision require-
ments and standards for global positioning system equipment used to  obtain information
submitted under subsection (2) of this section.
(8) Unless the licensed or permitted person submitting a start card under this section
has requested and  received an extension, a start card expires if construction, alteration,
abandonment or conversion  of a well does not begin on or before 60 days after submission
of the start card. If a start card expires, a  new start card and fee must be submitted in
compliance with this section before construction,  alteration, abandonment or conversion of
the well may occur. If a  start card is withdrawn before expiring, the licensed or permitted
person that submitted the start card may  request that the fee paid for the withdrawn start
card be transferred to a new start card.
(9) The commission may establish by rule an exception  to any time frame established in
this section for areas requiring  special standards and for any other purpose identified by the
commission.
(10) The requirement in subsection (2) of this section that a licensed or permitted person
must submit a start card not later than 72 hours before beginning work on a well does not
apply:
(a) To a second or additional water well drilled on the same or  a contiguous tax lot for
the same landowner and for which  a valid unexpired start card has been submitted pursuant
to this section, if a start card for the second  or additional water well is filed not later than
the day the work on the water well begins.
(b) During water emergencies or  casing height adjustments, if a start card is submitted
before work begins.
(11) The Water Resources  Director may, for good cause in exigent circumstances, waive
any time frame established by this section.
[(5)] (12) Each [ report form ] start card  submitted under [ subsection (1) of ] this section for the
construction of a new well, deepening of an existing well or conversion of a well shall  be accom-
panied by a fee of $350. [ Notwithstanding the fee established pursuant  to this subsection, the commis-
sion may adopt by rule a reduced fee for persons  submitting materials to the Water Resources
Department in a digital format approved by the department. ]
[(6)] (13)  The moneys paid to the [ commission] department under subsection [ (5)] (12)  of this
section shall be  paid into the Water Resources Department Operating Fund. All interest, if any, from
moneys received under subsection [ (5)] (12)  of this section  shall inure to the benefit of the [ Water
Resources ] department. Such moneys and interest earned on such  moneys are continuously appro-
priated to the department to  be used to pay the costs of the department to employ personnel to in-
spect wells and well construction.
SECTION 10.
 ORS 537.762, as amended by sections 8 and 9 of this 2021 Act, is amended to read:
537.762. (1) As used in this section:
(a) “Licensed or permitted person” means a  person licensed under ORS 537.747 or permitted
under ORS 537.753 (4).
(b) “Start card” means a form containing all information required by the Water Resources De-
partment as a notification that a licensed or permitted person will commence work on a well.
(2) Each licensed or  permitted person who has entered into a contract to construct, alter,
abandon or convert a well  or cause a well to be constructed, altered, abandoned or converted shall,
not earlier than 60 days and not later than 72  hours before beginning work on the well, submit a
start card to the department containing:
(a) The name, telephone number, electronic mail address  and post-office address of the owner
of the well.
(b) The approximate  location of the well by county tax lot number, township, range, section and
nearest quarter-quarter section.
(c) The street address nearest to the proposed well.
(d) The latitude and longitude of the well as established by a global positioning system.
Enrolled House Bill 2145 (HB 2145-B) Page 7
(e) The proposed depth and diameter of the well.
(f) The proposed purpose or use of the ground water from the proposed well.
(g) The time frame proposed for  beginning and completing the construction, alteration, aban-
donment or conversion.
(h) The time frame proposed for annular seal placement.
(i) The well identification label number, if assigned.
(j) The water right application, permit or certificate number, if applicable.
(k) The original well log number, if applicable.
(L) The type of work proposed.
(m) Notification of any need for special standards.
(n) The signature and license number,  if applicable, of the bonded and licensed or permitted
person who would undertake the work.
(o) For an existing well,  the current purpose or use of the well and the existing depth and di-
ameter of the well.
(3) The department shall furnish a convenient means for licensed or permitted  persons to submit
start card information under this section.
(4) A separate start card is required for  each well that is constructed, altered, abandoned or
converted.
(5) A start card submitted under this section shall be confidential and maintained  as such for
one year or until  the well log required under ORS 537.765 is received by the department, whichever
is earlier. Nothing in this subsection prohibits the department from using a start card for  enforce-
ment actions during the period the start card is confidential.
(6) On  the date that work on the well commences, the licensed or permitted person shall, before
commencing work, notify the  department that the work is about to commence. If the proposed date
of seal placement is not the date proposed on the start card required by  this section, the licensed
or permitted person shall notify  the department of the change at least four hours before placing the
seal.
(7) The Water Resources Commission may adopt rules establishing  precision requirements and
standards for global positioning system equipment used to obtain information submitted under  sub-
section (2) of this section.
(8) Unless the  licensed or permitted person submitting a start card under this section has re-
quested and received an extension, a start  card expires if construction, alteration, abandonment or
conversion of a well does not begin on or  before 60 days after submission of the start card. If a start
card expires,  a new start card and fee must be submitted in compliance with this section before
construction,  alteration,  abandonment or conversion of the well may occur. If a start card is with-
drawn before expiring,  the licensed or permitted person that submitted the start card may request
that the fee paid for the withdrawn start card be transferred to a new start card.
(9) The commission may establish by rule an exception to any time frame established in this
section for areas requiring special  standards and for any other purpose identified by the commission.
(10) The requirement in subsection (2) of this section that a licensed or permitted  person must
submit a start card not earlier than 60 days and not  later than 72 hours before beginning work on
a well does not apply:
(a) To a second or additional  water well drilled on the same or a contiguous tax lot for the same
landowner and for which a valid unexpired start card has been submitted  pursuant to this section,
if a start card for the second or additional water well is filed not later  than the day the work on
the water well begins.
(b) During water emergencies or  casing height adjustments, if a start card is submitted before
work begins.
(11) The Water Resources Director may, for good cause in  exigent circumstances, waive any
time frame established by this section.
(12) Each  start card submitted under this section for the construction of a new well, deepening
of an existing well or conversion  of a well shall be accompanied by a fee of $350. A start card shall
Enrolled House Bill 2145 (HB 2145-B) Page 8
be submitted to the department by electronic means, unless the department authorizes a
different means of submission.
(13) The moneys paid to the department  under subsection (12) of this section shall be paid into
the Water Resources Department Operating  Fund. All interest, if any, from moneys received under
subsection (12) of this section shall inure to the benefit of  the department. Such moneys and interest
earned on such moneys are continuously appropriated to the department to be used to pay the  costs
of the department to employ personnel to inspect wells and well construction.
SECTION 11.
 ORS 537.765 is amended to read:
537.765. (1) The business or activity of constructing  new wells or altering, abandoning or con-
verting existing wells is declared to be a business  or activity affecting the public welfare, health
and safety. In order to enable the state to protect the welfare, health and  safety of its citizens, any
person licensed under ORS 537.747, or any person or public agency constructing,  altering, aban-
doning or converting a well, shall keep a log of each well constructed,  altered, abandoned or con-
verted and shall furnish a certified copy of the log to the  Water Resources Commission within 30
days after the completion of the construction, alteration, abandonment or conversion.
(2) The commission shall provide acknowledgment to the constructor of receipt of a well  log
submitted under subsection (1) of this section within 120 days of receipt.
(3) Each log required under subsection (1) of  this section shall be in a form prescribed by the
commission and shall show:
(a) The name and post-office  address of the owner of the well and the person or public agency
performing or causing the performance of  the work of constructing, altering, abandoning or con-
verting the well.
(b) The location of the  well by county tax lot number, township, range and section, and to the
nearest quarter-quarter section  or latitude and longitude as established by a global positioning sys-
tem, or with reference to government survey corners or monuments or corners of recorded plats.
(c) The  dates of commencement and completion of the work of constructing, altering, abandoning
or converting the well.
(d) The depth, diameter and type of the well.
(e) The kind and amount of the casing and where placed in the  well, including the number and
location of perforations or screens.
(f) The flow in cubic feet  per second or gallons per minute of a flowing well, and the shut-in
pressure in pounds per square inch.
(g) The static water level with reference to the  land surface, and the drawdown with respect to
the amount of water pumped per minute, when a pump test is made.
(h) The kind and nature of the material in each stratum penetrated, with at least one entry for
each change of formation, and the thickness of aquifers.
(i) The temperature of the ground  water encountered and other characteristics of the ground
water in detail as required by the commission.
(4) If required by the commission, the person, public  agency or licensee referred to in subsection
(1) of this section shall furnish to the commission  samples of the ground water and of each change
of formation in containers furnished and transportation expense paid by the commission.
(5) Not later than 120 days after a well  log is submitted pursuant to this section, the
Water Resources Department shall:
(a) Review the well log to identify any deficiencies and  assess compliance with the
standards that were in effect when the  well that is the subject of the well log was con-
structed, altered, abandoned or converted.
(b) Notify the person licensed under ORS 537.747 or  permitted under ORS 537.753 (4) who
submitted the well log that the review has been completed.
SECTION 12.
 ORS 537.765, as amended by section 11 of this 2021 Act, is amended to read:
537.765. (1) As used in this section, “licensed or permitted person” means  a person li-
censed under ORS 537.747 or permitted under ORS 537.753 (4).
Enrolled House Bill 2145 (HB 2145-B) Page 9
[(1)] (2) The business or activity  of constructing new wells or altering, abandoning or converting
existing wells is declared to be a business or activity affecting the public welfare, health  and safety.
In order  to enable the state to protect the welfare, health and safety of its [ citizens,] residents,  any
[person licensed under ORS 537.747, or any person or  public agency constructing, altering, abandoning
or converting a well, ] licensed or permitted person  shall keep a log of each well constructed, al-
tered, abandoned or converted and shall [ furnish] file a certified copy of the log [ to] with the Water
Resources [ Commission] Department  within 30 days after the completion of the construction,  al-
teration, abandonment or conversion.
[(2)] (3)  The [ commission] department  shall provide  to a licensed or  permitted person  ac-
knowledgment [ to the constructor ] of receipt of a well log submitted under  [ subsection (1) of ] this
section within 120 days of receipt.
[(3)] (4)  Each log [ required under subsection (1) of ] that a licensed or permitted person files
under this section shall be in a form prescribed by the [ commission] department and shall show:
(a) The name and post-office address of the owner of the well .
(b) The name and license number, if applicable, of  [ and] the  licensed or permitted  person
[or public agency ] performing [ or causing the performance of ] the work [ of constructing, altering,
abandoning or converting the well ].
(c) The name and license number, if applicable, of the licensed or permitted person re-
sponsible for the work.
(d) The name of any person that assisted with the work.
[(b)] (e)  The location of the well by county tax lot number, township, range and section,  and to
the nearest  quarter-quarter section , [or] and by the latitude and longitude as established by a global
positioning system[ , or with reference to government survey  corners or monuments or corners of re-
corded plats].
[(c)] (f)  The dates of  commencement and completion of the work of constructing, altering,
abandoning or converting the well.
[(d)] (g)  The depth, diameter and type of the well.
[(e)] (h)  The kind and amount of the casing and where placed in  the well, including the number
and location of perforations or screens.
[(f)] (i) The flow in cubic feet per second or gallons per minute  of a flowing well, and the shut-in
pressure in pounds per square inch.
[(g)] (j)  The  static water level with reference to the land surface, and the drawdown with re-
spect to the amount of water pumped per minute, when a pump test is made.
[(h)] (k) The kind and nature of the material in each stratum  penetrated, with at least one entry
for each change of formation, and the thickness of aquifers.
[(i)] (L)  The temperature of the ground water encountered and  other characteristics of the
ground water in detail as required by the [ commission] department.
[(4)] (5)  If required by  the [ commission] department , the [ person, public agency or licensee re-
ferred to  in subsection (1) of this section ] licensed or permitted person  shall furnish to the [ com-
mission] department  samples of the ground  water and of each change of formation in containers
furnished and transportation expense paid by the [ commission] department.
[(5)] (6) Not later than 120 days  after a well log is submitted pursuant to this section, the [ Water
Resources ] department shall:
(a) Review the well log to identify any deficiencies and assess  compliance with the standards
that were in  effect when the well that is the subject of the well log was constructed, altered,
abandoned or converted.
(b) Notify the [ person licensed under ORS 537.747  or permitted under ORS 537.753 (4) ] licensed
or permitted person  who submitted the well log that the review has been completed.
(7) The Water Resources Commission  may adopt rules establishing precision require-
ments and standards for global positioning system equipment used to  obtain information
submitted under subsection (4)(e) of this section.
Enrolled House Bill 2145 (HB 2145-B) Page 10
SECTION 13.  ORS 537.765,  as amended by sections 11 and 12 of this 2021 Act, is amended to
read:
537.765. (1)  As used in this section, “licensed or permitted person” means a person licensed un-
der ORS 537.747 or permitted under ORS 537.753 (4).
(2) The business  or activity of constructing new wells or altering, abandoning or converting
existing wells is declared to be a business or activity affecting the public welfare, health  and safety.
In order to enable the state to protect the welfare, health and safety of its residents, any  licensed
or permitted person shall keep a log of each well constructed, altered, abandoned or converted  and
shall electronically file a certified copy of the log with  the Water Resources Department within 30
days after the completion of the construction, alteration, abandonment or conversion.
(3) The department shall provide to a  licensed or permitted person acknowledgment of receipt
of a well log submitted under this section within 120 days of receipt.
(4) Each log that a licensed  or permitted person files under this section shall be in a form pre-
scribed by the department and shall show:
(a) The name and post-office address of the owner of the well.
(b) The name  and license number, if applicable, of the licensed or permitted person performing
the work.
(c) The name and license number, if applicable, of  the licensed or permitted person responsible
for the work.
(d) The name of any person that assisted with the work.
(e) The location of  the well by county tax lot number, township, range and section, and to the
nearest quarter-quarter section, and by the latitude and longitude as established by a global  posi-
tioning system.
(f) The dates of commencement and completion of  the work of constructing, altering, abandoning
or converting the well.
(g) The depth, diameter and type of the well.
(h) The kind and amount of the casing and where placed in the well, including  the number and
location of perforations or screens.
(i) The flow in cubic feet  per second or gallons per minute of a flowing well, and the shut-in
pressure in pounds per square inch.
(j) The static water level with reference to the land surface, and the drawdown with respect  to
the amount of water pumped per minute, when a pump test is made.
(k) The kind and nature of the material in each stratum penetrated, with at least one entry for
each change of formation, and the thickness of aquifers.
(L) The temperature of  the ground water encountered and other characteristics of the ground
water in detail as required by the department.
(5) If  required by the department, the licensed or permitted person shall furnish to the depart-
ment samples of the ground water and of each change of formation in containers furnished  and
transportation expense paid by the department.
(6) Not later than 120 days after a well  log is submitted pursuant to this section, the department
shall:
(a) Review the well log  to identify any deficiencies and assess compliance with the standards
that were in effect when the well that is the subject of the well log was  constructed, altered,
abandoned or converted.
(b) Notify the  licensed or permitted person who submitted the well log that the review has been
completed.
(7) The Water Resources Commission may adopt rules establishing  precision requirements and
standards for global positioning system equipment used to obtain information submitted under  sub-
section (4)(e) of this section.
(8) The commission may adopt rules that waive the electronic submittal requirement.
SECTION 14.
 ORS 537.780 is amended to read:
Enrolled House Bill 2145 (HB 2145-B) Page 11
537.780. (1) In the administration of ORS 537.505 to 537.795 and 537.992, the Water Resources
Commission may:
(a) Require that all flowing wells be capped or equipped with valves so that the flow of ground
water may be completely stopped when the ground water is not actually being applied to a beneficial
use.
(b) Enforce:
(A) General standards for the construction [ and], alteration, abandonment,  conversion or
maintenance of wells and their casings, fittings, valves, pumps and  back-siphoning prevention de-
vices; and
(B) Special  standards for the construction [ and], alteration, abandonment, conversion or
maintenance of particular wells and their casings, fittings, valves and pumps.
(c)(A) Adopt by rule and enforce when necessary to protect  the ground water resource, stand-
ards for the construction, maintenance, abandonment or use of any hole through which ground water
may be contaminated; or
(B) Enter into an agreement with, or advise, other state agencies that are responsible  for holes
other than wells through which ground water may be contaminated in order  to protect the ground
water resource from contamination.
(d) Enforce uniform standards for the scientific measurement of water levels and  of ground wa-
ter flowing or withdrawn from wells.
(e) Enter upon any lands for the purpose of  inspecting wells, including wells exempt under ORS
537.545, casings,  fittings, valves, pipes, pumps, measuring devices and back-siphoning prevention de-
vices.
(f) Prosecute actions and suits to enjoin violations  of ORS 537.505 to 537.795 and 537.992, and
appear and become  a party to any action, suit or proceeding in any court or before any adminis-
trative body when it appears to the satisfaction of the commission that the determination  of the
action, suit or proceeding might be in conflict with the public policy expressed in ORS 537.525.
(g) Call upon and receive advice and assistance from the Environmental  Quality Commission or
any other public agency or any  person, and enter into cooperative agreements with a public agency
or person.
(h) Adopt  and enforce rules necessary to carry out the provisions of ORS 537.505 to 537.795 and
537.992 including but not limited to rules governing:
(A) The form  and content of registration statements, certificates of registration, applications for
permits, permits, certificates of completion, ground water right certificates, notices, proofs, maps,
drawings, logs and licenses;
(B) Procedure in hearings held by the commission; and
(C) The circumstances  under which the helpers of persons operating well drilling machinery may
be exempt from the requirement of direct supervision by a licensed water well constructor.
(i) In accordance with  applicable law regarding search and seizure, apply to any court of com-
petent jurisdiction for a  warrant to seize any well drilling machine used in violation of ORS 537.747
or 537.753.
(2) Notwithstanding any provision of subsection (1) of this section, in administering the pro-
visions of ORS 537.505 to 537.795 and 537.992, the commission may not:
(a) Adopt any rule restricting ground water use in an area unless the rule is based on substan-
tial evidence in the record of the Water Resources Department to  justify the imposition of re-
strictions.
(b) Make  any determination that a ground water use will impair, substantially interfere or un-
duly interfere with  a surface water source unless the determination is based on substantial evidence.
Such evidence may  include reports or studies prepared with relation to the specific use or may be
based on the application of generally accepted hydrogeological principles to the specific use.
(3) At least once  every three years, the commission shall review any rule adopted under sub-
section (2) of this section that restricts ground water use in an area.  The review process shall in-
clude public notice and an opportunity to comment on the rule.
Enrolled House Bill 2145 (HB 2145-B) Page 12
SECTION 15.  ORS 537.789 is amended to read:
537.789. [(1) The well identification number provided by the Water Resources  Department when the
reporting requirement of ORS 537.762 is satisfied shall  be recorded on the well by a person licensed
under ORS 537.747 within 30 days after the associated well work is completed. ]
(1) As used in this section, “licensed or permitted person”  means a person licensed under
ORS 537.747 or permitted under ORS 537.753 (4).
(2) A licensed or permitted person who files a well log  under ORS 537.765 shall include
on the well log the identification number provided by  the Water Resources Department. The
licensed or permitted person shall affix the identification number to the well  no later than
30 days after completing work on the well.
[(2)] (3) If a well does not have an identification number [ recorded on ] affixed to it at  the time
the property upon which the well is located is transferred, the owner of the property shall  [ record
on] affix to  the well the identification number  obtained from the [ Water Resources ] department un-
der ORS 537.791 within 30 days.
[(3)] (4) The identification number [ on] affixed to the  well shall be clearly visible to a person
looking for the number and shall meet minimum standards as recommended by the ground water
advisory committee appointed under ORS 536.090 and adopted by the Water  Resources Commission.
SECTION 16.
 ORS 537.791 is amended to read:
537.791. (1) A landowner may apply to the  Water Resources Department for a number to identify
a well on the landowner’s property.
[(2) The Water Resources Department shall  issue a number to identify a well that has not received
a number through the reporting process required for wells  under ORS 537.762 within 10 days after
receipt of the application. ]
(2) If the department has not previously assigned an identification number  to the well,
no later  than 10 days after receiving an application under this section, the department shall
assign an identification number to the well.
SECTION 17.  Section 2, chapter 496, Oregon Laws 2001, is amended to read:
Sec. 2.  (1) There is established a Well Constructors Continuing Education Committee consisting
of [ four] six members appointed by the Water Resources Director as follows:
(a) One person representing the Water Resources Department;
[(a)] (b) Three persons from the well drilling industry licensed pursuant to ORS 537.747; [ and]
[(b) One person from the regulatory community. ]
(c) One person having expertise in ground water quality or public health; and
(d) One person having expertise in employee safety.
(2) The term of office of each member is three years, but a member serves at  the pleasure of the
director.  Before  the expiration of the term of a member, the director shall appoint a successor whose
term begins on July 1 next following. A member is eligible for reappointment. If there is a vacancy
for any cause, the director shall make an appointment to become effective immediately for the  un-
expired term.
(3) A member of the committee is entitled to travel expenses as provided in ORS 292.495.
(4) Members of the  committee must be residents of this state who are knowledgeable about the
principles of well construction.
(5) The committee shall select one of its members as  chairperson and another as vice chair-
person, for such terms and with the duties and  powers necessary for the performance of the func-
tions of such offices as the committee determines.
(6) [Three] Four  members of the committee constitute a quorum  for the transaction of business.
At least [ three] four  members of the committee must approve all official actions or decisions of the
committee.
SECTION 18.
 Section 7, chapter 496, Oregon Laws 2001, as amended  by section 3, chapter 221,
Oregon Laws 2007, and section 1, chapter 57, Oregon Laws 2014, is amended to read:
Sec. 7.  Sections 2 and 4, chapter 496, Oregon Laws 2001, are repealed January 2, [ 2022] 2030.
Enrolled House Bill 2145 (HB 2145-B) Page 13
SECTION 19. If the Water Resources Department has information that a person has
engaged, or is about  to engage, in any activity that is or will be a violation of ORS 537.747,
537.753, 537.762 or 537.765 or the standards described  in ORS 537.780 (1)(b) or (c), in addition
to any other available remedies, the department may apply to the circuit  court for Marion
County, or to the circuit court for any county in which the activity has occurred or will oc-
cur, for a temporary or permanent injunction requiring the person to:
(1) Refrain from the activity; and
(2) Take any actions necessary to remedy any threat to groundwater supplies,  public
health or public safety.
SECTION 20.
 ORS 537.545 is amended to read:
537.545. (1) No registration, certificate of registration,  application for a permit, permit, certif-
icate of completion or ground water right certificate under ORS 537.505 to 537.795 and 537.992  is
required for the use of ground water for:
(a) Stockwatering purposes;
(b) Watering any lawn or noncommercial garden not exceeding one-half acre in area;
(c) Watering  the lawns, grounds and fields not exceeding 10 acres in area of schools located
within a critical ground water area established pursuant to ORS 537.730 to 537.740;
(d) Single or group domestic purposes in an amount not exceeding 15,000 gallons a day;
(e) Down-hole heat exchange purposes;
(f) Any single industrial or  commercial purpose in an amount not exceeding 5,000 gallons a day;
or
(g) Land application, so long as the ground water:
(A) Has first been appropriated and used under a permit or certificate  issued under ORS 537.625
or 537.630 for a water right issued  for industrial purposes or a water right authorizing use of water
for confined animal feeding purposes;
(B) Is reused for irrigation purposes and the period of irrigation is a  period during which the
reused water has never been discharged to the waters of the state; and
(C) Is applied pursuant to a permit issued by the Department of Environmental  Quality or the
State Department of Agriculture under either ORS 468B.050 to construct and  operate a disposal
system or ORS 468B.215 to operate a confined animal feeding operation.
(2) A ground water use for a purpose that is exempt under subsection (1) of this section,  to the
extent that the use is beneficial, constitutes a right to  appropriate ground water equal to that es-
tablished by a ground water right certificate issued under ORS 537.700.
(3) Except  for the use of water under subsection (1)(g) of this section, the Water Resources
Commission by rule may require any person or  public agency using ground water for any such
purpose to furnish information with regard to such ground  water and the use thereof. For a use of
water described in subsection  (1)(g) of this section, the Department of Environmental Quality or the
State Department of Agriculture  shall provide to the Water Resources Department a copy of the
permit issued under ORS 468B.050 or 468B.215 authorizing the land application of ground  water for
reuse. The permit  shall provide the information regarding the place of use of such water and the
nature of the beneficial reuse.
(4) If it is necessary for the Water Resources Department to regulate the use or distribution  of
ground water, including uses for purposes that are exempt under subsection  (1) of this section, the
department shall use as a priority date for the exempt uses  the date indicated in the log for the well
filed with the department under ORS 537.765 or other  documentation provided by the well owner
showing when water use began.
(5) The [ owner of land on which a well  is drilled ] person licensed under ORS 537.747 or per-
mitted under ORS 537.753 (4) that constructs a well  to allow ground water use for a purpose that
is exempt under subsection (1) of this section  shall provide the Water Resources Department with
a map showing the exact location  of the well on the tax lot. The [ landowner] person licensed under
ORS 537.747 or permitted  under ORS 537.753 (4) that constructs a well  shall provide a map
required by this subsection to the department , along with the well log required by ORS 537.765,
Enrolled House Bill 2145 (HB 2145-B) Page 14
no later than 30 days after  the well is completed. The map must be prepared in accordance with
standards established by the department.  The map and well  log must be accompanied by the fee
described in subsection (6) of this section to record the exempt ground water use.
[(6) The owner of land on which a well described  in subsection (5) of this section is located shall
file the exempt ground water use with the Water Resources Department for recording. The filing  must
be accompanied by the fee described in subsection (7) of this section. The filing must be received by  the
department no later than 30 days after the well is completed. ]
[(7)] (6)  The  Water Resources Department shall collect a fee of $300 for recording an exempt
ground water use  under subsection [ (6)] (5)  of this section. Moneys from fees collected under this
subsection shall be deposited to the credit  of the Water Resources Department Water Right Oper-
ating Fund. Notwithstanding ORS 536.009, moneys deposited to the fund under this subsection  shall
be used for the purposes of evaluating  ground water supplies, conducting ground water studies,
carrying out ground water monitoring, processing ground  water data and the administration and
enforcement of this subsection and subsections (3), (5)[ , (6)] and [ (8)] (7) of this section.
[(8)] (7)  The  Water Resources Commission shall adopt rules to implement, administer and en-
force subsections (5) [ to (7) ] and (6)  of this section.
SECTION 20a.  ORS 536.900 is amended to read:
536.900. (1) In addition to  any other liability or penalty provided by law, the Water Resources
Commission may impose a civil penalty on a person for any of the following:
(a) Violation of any of  the terms or conditions of a permit, certificate or license issued under
ORS chapters 536 to 543A.
(b) Violation of ORS 537.130 or 537.535.
(c) Violation of ORS 537.545 (5) [ or (6) ] or of a rule described in ORS 537.545 [ (8)] (7).
(d) Violation of any rule or order of the Water Resources Commission that pertains to  well
maintenance.
(e) Violation of ORS 540.045, 540.145,  540.210, 540.310, 540.320, 540.330, 540.340, 540.435, 540.440,
540.570 (5), 540.710, 540.720 and 540.730 or rules adopted under ORS 540.145.
(2) A civil penalty may be imposed under this section for each day of violation  of ORS 537.130,
537.535, 540.045, 540.310, 540.330, 540.570 (5), 540.710, 540.720 or 540.730.
(3) In the event the petitioner knowingly misrepresents the map and petition required  in ORS
541.329, the commission may assess a penalty of up  to $1,000 based upon guidelines to be established
by the commission. In addition, the petition and map shall be amended to correct  the error at the
petitioner’s cost. Affected users shall be given notice as provided in ORS 541.329 (5).
(4) A  civil penalty may not be imposed until the commission prescribes a reasonable time to
eliminate the violation. The commission shall notify the violator of  the time allowed to correct a
violation within five days after the commission first becomes aware of the violation.
(5) Notwithstanding any term or condition of a  permit, certificate or license, the rotation of the
use of water under ORS  540.150 may not be considered a violation under subsection (1) of this sec-
tion.
SECTION 21.
 ORS 537.763 is amended to read:
537.763. (1) There is established in the  State Treasury the Water Resources Department Oper-
ating Fund to provide for the payment of the administrative expenses of the Water Resources Com-
mission in carrying out the provisions of ORS 537.762.
(2) The Water Resources Department Operating Fund shall consist of:
(a) Fees received pursuant to ORS 537.762.
(b) All moneys received on behalf  of the fund by gift, grant or appropriation, from whatever
source.
(3) The Water Resources  Department Operating Fund shall be separate and distinct from the
General Fund. All interest  earned by the Water Resources Department Operating Fund , if any,
shall inure to the benefit of the [ Water Resources Department Operating Fund ] fund.
Enrolled House Bill 2145 (HB 2145-B) Page 15
(4) In expending  moneys in the [ Water Resources Department Operating Fund ] fund  received
from fees pursuant to ORS 537.762, the biennial limitations on expenditures  of the Water Resources
Department shall be:
(a) No more than five percent for well inspection administrative support;
(b) No more than 20 percent for well inspection technical and information services; and
(c) No less than 75 percent for well  inspection field investigation , [and] enforcement  and review
of well logs .
SECTION 22.
On or before January 31, 2023, and  on or before January 31, 2025, the Water
Resources Department shall  report to a committee or interim committee of the Legislative
Assembly related to water, in the manner prescribed in ORS 192.245, on  the department’s
review of well logs and inspection  of wells. The reports shall describe, but need not be limited
to:
(1) The number of well  logs the department has identified as having deficiencies and the
nature of the deficiencies.
(2) The number of inspected wells  that had deficiencies and whether the nature of the
deficiencies was observed on the well logs for the wells.
(3) The department’s workload associated with reviewing well logs and inspecting wells.
SECTION 23.
Sections 2 and 3 of this 2021 Act become operative on January 1, 2022.
SECTION 24. The amendments to ORS 537.765 by section 11 of this 2021 Act:
(1) Become operative on July 1, 2022.
(2) Apply to wells logs submitted on or after July 1, 2022.
SECTION 25.
The amendments to ORS 537.747 by section 6 of this 2021 Act apply to  li-
cense issuance, requalification or renewal for which an application  is received by the Water
Resources Department on or after July 1, 2023.
SECTION 26. The amendments to ORS  537.762 by section 9 of this 2021 Act apply to in-
formation submitted to the Water Resources Department on or after July 1, 2023,  relating
to the proposed construction, alteration, abandonment or conversion of a well.
SECTION 27. Section 19  of this 2021 Act and the amendments to ORS 536.090, 536.750,
537.747, 537.753, 537.762, 537.765, 537.780, 537.789 and 537.791 by sections 4 to  7, 9, 12 and 14 to
16 of this 2021 Act become operative on July 1, 2023.
SECTION 28. The amendments to ORS 537.762 and 537.765 by sections 10 and 13 of this
2021 Act become operative on July 1, 2024.
SECTION 29. The amendments to section 2,  chapter 496, Oregon Laws 2001, by section
17 of this 2021 Act do not alter the term of office of a member serving on the  Well
Constructors Continuing Education Committee immediately  prior to the effective date of this
2021 Act.
SECTION 30. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the General Fund appropriation
made to the Water  Resources Department by section 1 (4), chapter ___, Oregon Laws 2021
(Enrolled Senate Bill 5545), for the  biennium beginning July 1, 2021, for technical services,
is increased by $575,415 for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of sections 3  and 22
of this  2021 Act and the amendments to ORS 537.747, 537.753, 537.762, 537.765 and 537.791 by
sections 6, 7, 9, 11, 12 and 16 of this 2021 Act.
SECTION 31. In addition to and not in lieu of any  other appropriation, there is appro-
priated to the Water Resources Department, for the biennium beginning July 1,  2021, out of
the General Fund, the amount of $100,000, for deposit in the Water  Well Abandonment, Re-
pair and Replacement Fund established by section 2 of this 2021 Act.
Enrolled House Bill 2145 (HB 2145-B) Page 16
Passed by House June 24, 2021
..................................................................................
Timothy G. Sekerak, Chief Clerk of House
..................................................................................
Tina Kotek, Speaker of House
Passed by Senate June 26, 2021
..................................................................................
Peter Courtney, President of Senate
Received by Governor:
........................M.,........................................................., 2021
Approved:
........................M.,........................................................., 2021
..................................................................................
Kate Brown, Governor
Filed in Office of Secretary of State:
........................M.,........................................................., 2021
..................................................................................
Shemia Fagan, Secretary of State
Enrolled House Bill 2145 (HB 2145-B) Page 17