1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
81st OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2021 Regular Session
House Bill 2957
Sponsored by Representative MCLAIN
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Directs Director of Transportation to adopt rules to regulate statewide operation  of transpor-
tation network companies and to report, on or before September 15, 2022, to appropriate  committee
or interim committee of Legislative Assembly concerning  recommendations for legislation and other
measures necessary to improve implementation  of oversight over transportation network companies.
Specifies guidelines for rulemaking.
Sunsets January 2, 2023.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to transportation network companies.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Director of Transportation shall adopt rules to regulate statewide
operation of transportation network companies and on or before September 15,  2022, shall
report to an appropriate committee or interim committee  of the Legislative Assembly in the
manner provided under ORS 192.245 concerning the implementation  of the director’s
rulemaking. The report must recommend legislation and other measures necessary  to
effectuate the purposes set forth in subsection (2) of this section.
(2) The rules described in subsection  (1) of this section must specify, with respect to
transportation network companies,  motor vehicles associated with transportation network
companies and operators of the motor vehicles:
(a) Standards for inspecting and verifying the safe operation of the motor vehicles;
(b) Procedures and standards for qualifying operators of the motor vehicles;
(c) Insurance requirements for operators of the motor vehicles;
(d) Notifications and disclosures required for passengers of the motor vehicles;
(e) Accessibility and appropriate accommodations for passengers with disabilities;
(f) Appropriate fees and funding necessary to oversee transportation company operations;
and
(g) Such other matters  that the Director of Transportation, after conducting an investi-
gation and making appropriate findings, deems  necessary to regulate in order to effectuate
the safety and reliability of motor vehicles associated  with transportation network compa-
nies, appropriate qualifications for reliable motor vehicle operators, transparency in pricing
and appropriate accommodations for passengers with disabilities.
SECTION 2.
Section 1 of this 2021 Act is repealed on January 2, 2023.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1525