1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2024 Regular Session
House Bill 4052
Introduced and  printed pursuant to House Rule 12.00. Presession filed (at the request of House Interim Committee
on Gambling Regulation for Representative John Lively)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Certain horse racing companies pay a fee to  the Oregon Racing Commission. Currently
a portion of the fee goes to the General Fund. The  Act provides that portion must be spent by the
ORC for horse and jockey safety. (Flesch Readability Score: 68.5).
Provides that portion of payments made to  the Oregon Racing Commission by Multi-
Jurisdictional  Simulcasting  and Interactive Wagering Totalizator Hubs must be expended for pur-
poses related to equine and jockey safety instead of being transferred to the General Fund.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to racing; amending ORS 462.725.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 462.725 is amended to read:
462.725. (1) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the Oregon Racing Commission
may adopt rules to:
(a) License and  regulate all phases of operation of Multi-Jurisdictional Simulcasting and Inter-
active Wagering Totalizator Hubs located in Oregon; and
(b) Authorize and license Multi-Jurisdictional  Simulcasting and Interactive Wagering Totalizator
Hubs to  conduct simulcast broadcasting of, and mutuel wagering on, animal races, including previ-
ously held races on which mutuel wagering is lawful in Oregon.
(2) In addition to the  other rules of operation adopted by the commission, the commission shall
adopt a rule setting the amount that may be taken from the gross receipts  of the multi-jurisdictional
mutuel system.
(3) All employees working in Oregon and all officers of any Multi-Jurisdictional Simulcasting
and Interactive Wagering Totalizator Hubs located and  operating in Oregon must obtain a license
from the commission prior to the commencement of business or employment.  The commission shall
adopt rules establishing license fees for the employees and officers, not to exceed $30 per year.
(4) Payments to be made to the commission include:
(a) Multi-Jurisdictional Simulcasting and Interactive Wagering Totalizator Hub license fee  not
more than $200 per operating day.
(b) Not more than one percent  of total gross receipts of mutuel wagering recorded by the
totalizator system.
(5) Of the moneys received by the  commission under subsection (4)(b) of this section, [ 25 percent
shall be paid to the State Treasurer for  deposit in the General Fund and 75 percent shall be retained
by the commission ] at least 25 percent must be  expended for purposes related to equine and
jockey safety. The commission may adopt rules under which the remaining moneys [ retained by the
commission] may be distributed for the benefit of the Oregon pari-mutuel racing industry.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 213
HB 4052
1
2
3
4
5
6
(6) Wagers on previously held races authorized under subsection (1) of this section are  subject
to the provisions of ORS 462.157.
(7) A Multi-Jurisdictional Simulcasting and Interactive Wagering Totalizator Hub licensee may
establish an account for wagering on greyhound racing for an  individual unless wagering on live
greyhound racing is unlawful in the jurisdiction of the individual’s principal residence.
[2]