1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2700
Sponsored by Representative EVANS (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act tells ODEM to make a registry of people who can  help with emergencies.
(Flesch Readability Score: 67.5).
Directs the Oregon Department of Emergency Management to  create and maintain a registry
of persons able and willing to provide services related to emergency response. Requires  that the
registry be accessible to emergency management agencies  and emergency program managers. Di-
rects the department to establish procedures for communicating with appropriate  entities to gather
and update registry information.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to emergency response.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Oregon  Department of Emergency Management shall create and
maintain a registry of persons who are able and  willing to provide services related to emer-
gency response. The registry may include:
(a) Current or former first responders;
(b) Persons experienced in construction or other skilled trades; and
(c) Other persons that  the department determines are able to assist in emergency re-
sponse.
(2) As a condition of inclusion on the registry, the department may require:
(a) Evidence of relevant qualifications;
(b) Training related to emergency response, including incident management  or command;
and
(c) Criminal background checks.
(3) The registry must include, for each person:
(a) The person’s name and contact information;
(b) The physical location where the person is based;
(c) Specialized training or skills related to emergency response that the person has; and
(d) A description of vehicles or equipment that the person is willing to permit use of  for
emergency response.
(4) The registry must be accessible to emergency management  agencies and emergency
program managers described in ORS 401.305. The department may make the registry ac-
cessible to any other  persons or entities if the department determines that providing such
access will enhance public safety.
(5) The department shall establish  procedures for communicating with emergency man-
agement agencies or  other appropriate entities for the purposes of gathering information for
the registry and regularly updating the information.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 3165
HB 2700
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
(6) The department  shall consult with the following state agencies in creating and main-
taining the registry:
(a) The Department of Public Safety Standards and Training;
(b) The Oregon Health Authority; and
(c) The Higher Education Coordinating Commission.
(7) The Oregon Department of Emergency Management may adopt rules necessary  for
the administration of this section.
[2]