1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Concurrent Resolution 13
Sponsored by Senators SMITH DB, NASH, Representative LEVY B; Senator WEBER (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Designates the T-bone as the official state steak. (Flesch Readability Score: 71.8).
Designates the T-bone as the official state steak.
CONCURRENT RESOLUTION
Whereas the State of Oregon has traditionally recognized a variety of official state  emblems as
tangible representations of the proud spirit and heritage of this state; and
Whereas Oregon has designated an official state nut,  state beverage, state fruit, state vegetable
and even a state pie, but  has yet to designate a state steak to recognize the vital role of beef cattle
in Oregon’s development; and
Whereas cattle have been raised in Oregon since 1824; and
Whereas cattle and calves  were Oregon’s second-leading agricultural commodity in 2022, with
a total value of production of nearly $800 million; and
Whereas all 36 Oregon counties participate in producing cattle and have cattle within their
borders; and
Whereas Oregon’s reputation as a national leader in agriculture  is well deserved, and beef has
contributed greatly to this proud legacy; and
Whereas Oregon ranchers are known  for their respect for the land and their efforts to maintain
it for long-term cattle production; and
Whereas beef steak is a food that supports an active and healthy lifestyle, and it is a  source of
such essential nutrients as protein, zinc, B vitamins, iron and riboflavin; and
Whereas the T-bone is a remarkable steak that features two distinct cuts of  beef: the strip steak
(which packs a bold, beefy flavor and has a hearty texture) and the filet (which is renowned for  its
exceptional tenderness and mild taste); and
Whereas there’s nothing quite like the mouthwatering smell of  a T-bone sizzling on a grill, then
you get to eat it; and
Whereas an ideal way to enjoy time with family or friends is to share a meal  that includes a
succulent Oregon T-bone paired with an Oregon baked potato or other local vegetables; and
Whereas embracing the excellent qualities of one steak does not diminish  the value of other
steaks; and
Whereas due to  the deep connection that beef has with the State of Oregon, and due to the
unique delectability  of the T-bone, it fully deserves the honor of being our state steak; now, there-
fore,
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
That the T-bone is the official steak of the State of Oregon.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1873
SCR 13
1
[2]