1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 845
Printed pursuant to  Senate Interim Rule 213.28 by order of the President of the Senate in conformance with pre-
session filing rules,  indicating neither advocacy nor opposition on the part of the President (at the request
of Governor Tina Kotek for Public Utility Commission)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Allows the PUC to order a water utility that is not able to provide  service to be bought.
(Flesch Readability Score: 61.6).
Authorizes the Public Utility Commission to order  the acquisition of an incumbent water utility
by another water utility or entity when the incumbent water utility is  not able to provide safe, ad-
equate, efficient and reasonable service.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to water utilities regulated by the Public Utility Commission.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) As used in this section:
(a) “Incumbent water utility” means an existing water utility  that may be acquired by
another water utility or other entity.
(b) “Safe, adequate, efficient and reasonable service” includes the ability of  a water util-
ity or other entity to provide to its customers potable and  palatable water at sufficient vol-
ume and pressure.
(c) “Water utility” means a public utility, as defined in ORS 757.005, that  provides water
service.
(2) The  Public Utility Commission may order the acquisition of an incumbent water util-
ity if the commission determines, following notice and a public hearing, that:
(a) The incumbent water utility is in violation  of statutory or regulatory standards and
the violation affects the safety, adequacy, efficiency or reasonableness  of the service pro-
vided by the incumbent water utility;
(b) The incumbent water utility has failed to comply, within a reasonable period of time,
with an order from the commission concerning the safety, adequacy, efficiency or reason-
ableness of the service provided by the incumbent water utility;
(c) The incumbent water utility cannot reasonably be expected to furnish and  maintain
safe, adequate, efficient and reasonable service in the reasonably foreseeable future;
(d) Continued operation of service  or the water system by the incumbent water utility
may create an unreasonable risk to public health or safety by reason of  contamination,
dilapidated structures, improper or insufficient water or  sanitary facilities or any combina-
tion of these factors;
(e) Alternative actions have been considered under subsection (4) of this section and the
alternative actions are impractical or economically infeasible;
(f) The acquiring water utility or entity is financially and technically capable of acquiring
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 457
SB 845
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
and operating the incumbent water utility in compliance with applicable statutory and regu-
latory standards;
(g) The rates charged by the  acquiring water utility or entity to the acquiring water
utility’s or entity’s existing customers  will not unreasonably increase because of the acqui-
sition; and
(h) The price of the acquisition meets the requirements under subsection (5) of this sec-
tion.
(3) The commission may approve a water utility or entity as an acquiring water  utility
or entity under subsection (2) of this section if the water utility or entity:
(a) Is willing to acquire the incumbent water utility;
(b) Is not an affiliated interest of the incumbent water utility;
(c) Provides safe, adequate, efficient and reasonable service to its existing customers; and
(d) Regularly provides or is capable of regularly providing the same type  of service as the
incumbent water utility.
(4) Prior to ordering an acquisition of an incumbent water utility under subsection  (2)
of this section, the  commission shall discuss with the incumbent water utility, and give the
incumbent water utility reasonable opportunity  to investigate, alternative actions to the ac-
quisition. Alternative actions may include:
(a) Reorganization of the incumbent water utility under new management;
(b) Entering into a contract with another water utility or a management or  service
company to operate the incumbent water utility;
(c) Appointment of an independent administrator to  oversee and ensure the provision of
safe, adequate, efficient and reasonable service by the incumbent water utility;
(d) Merger of the incumbent water utility with one or more other water utilities; or
(e) Acquisition of the incumbent water utility by a municipality, municipal utility, coop-
erative association or people’s utility district.
(5) The price of an acquisition under subsection (2) of  this section shall be determined
by agreement between the incumbent water utility and acquiring  water utility or entity,
subject to a determination by the commission that the price is fair  and reasonable. If the
incumbent water utility and acquiring water utility or entity  are unable to reach an agree-
ment on the price  of the acquisition, the commission may issue an order directing the ac-
quiring water utility or entity to acquire the incumbent water utility  by following the
procedures for exercising the power of eminent domain under ORS chapter 35.
(6) When  carrying out the provisions of this section, the commission may appoint an in-
dependent administrator to represent or protect the interests of  the customers of an
incumbent water utility. An order appointing an independent administrator  must specify the
duties and responsibilities of the independent administrator.
[2]