82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2023 Regular Session
Enrolled
Senate Joint Resolution 34
Sponsored by COMMITTEE ON RULES
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
PARAGRAPH 1.
 The Constitution of the State of Oregon is amended by creating a  new section
2 to be added to and made a part of Article XIII, such section to read:
SECTION 2. (1) The Independent Public Service Compensation Commission  is to be es-
tablished in the manner provided by law.
(2) None of the following may be a member of the commission:
(a) An officer or employee of the State of Oregon;
(b) An individual required by law to register with any state agency as a lobbyist; or
(c) An immediate family member of an individual described in paragraph (a) or (b)  of this
subsection.
(3) The Legislative Assembly may, by law, establish classes of individuals ineligible for
membership on the commission  in addition to those specified in subsection (2) of this section.
(4)(a) Once established, the commission  shall determine the amounts of the salaries to
be paid to the officials specified in subsection (5) of this section, notwithstanding section 29,
Article IV, and section 1, Article VII (Amended) of this  Constitution. The determinations of
the commission constitute the salaries to be paid by the state to the specified officials.
(b) The commission shall make its determinations  before January 30 of each odd-
numbered year to be effective for the biennium beginning July 1 of that year.
(5) The commission shall establish salaries for the following officials:
(a) Governor;
(b) Secretary of State;
(c) State Treasurer;
(d) Attorney General;
(e) Commissioner of the Bureau of Labor and Industries or any successor agency;
(f) Judges of the Supreme Court;
(g) Judges of other courts under the administration of  the judicial branch of state gov-
ernment;
(h) State Senator;
(i) State Representative; and
(j) District attorneys.
(6) The commission may establish different salaries for different  classes of officials
within the categories described in paragraphs (f) to (j) of subsection (5) of this section.
(7) The  compensation of a judge shall not be diminished during the term for which the
judge is elected.
(8) Upon the commission’s adoption of its determinations, moneys sufficient to pay the
salaries determined by the commission are deemed to be appropriated from the General Fund
for the biennium in which the determinations are  effective, notwithstanding section 4, Arti-
cle IX of this Constitution.
(9) Nothing in this section creates or requires the creation of any state office.
Enrolled Senate Joint Resolution 34 (SJR 34-B) Page 1
PARAGRAPH 2. The amendment proposed by this resolution shall be submitted  to the
people for their approval or rejection at  the next regular general election held throughout
this state.
Adopted by Senate June 21, 2023
Readopted by Senate June 25, 2023
Lori L. Brocker, Secretary of Senate
Rob Wagner, President of Senate
Adopted by House June 24, 2023
Dan Rayfield, Speaker of House
Enrolled Senate Joint Resolution 34 (SJR 34-B) Page 2