1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Joint Resolution 12
Sponsored by Senator GIROD (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The measure asks voters to  require each bill to get a two-thirds vote in favor in the
Senate and the House to pass during short sessions. The measure asks  voters to say yes or no at
the next general election. (Flesch Readability Score: 72.3).
Proposes an amendment to the Oregon  Constitution to require a vote of at least two-thirds of
all members  elected to each House of the Legislative Assembly to pass bills during an even-
numbered year regular session of the Legislative Assembly.
Refers the proposed amendment to voters for their approval or  rejection at the next regular
general election.
JOINT RESOLUTION
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
PARAGRAPH 1.
 Section 25, Article IV  of the Constitution of the State of Oregon, is amended
to read:
Sec. 25.  (1) Except as otherwise  provided in subsection (2)  or (3)  of this section, a majority of
all the members elected to each House shall be necessary to pass every bill or Joint resolution.
(2) Three-fifths of all members elected to each House  shall be necessary to pass bills for raising
revenue.
(3) Two-thirds of all members  elected to each House shall be necessary to pass bills in
the even-numbered year regular session.
[(3)] (4)  All bills, and Joint  resolutions passed, shall be signed by the presiding officers of the
respective houses.
PARAGRAPH 2. The amendment proposed by this resolution shall be submitted to  the
people for their approval or rejection  at the next regular general election held throughout
this state.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1891