1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 520
Sponsored by Senator SMITH DB, Representatives BOICE, OSBORNE (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: This Act gives money to  Coos and Curry Counties to transport veterans to a VA medical
center. (Flesch Readability Score: 60.1).
Appropriates moneys from the General Fund to the  Oregon Department of Administrative Ser-
vices for the biennium beginning July 1,  2025, to provide transportation services to the Roseburg
Veterans Affairs Medical Center for veterans residing in Coos and Curry Counties.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to veterans.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there is appropri-
ated to the Oregon Department of  Administrative Services, for the biennium beginning July
1, 2025, out of the General Fund, the amount of $  for  distribution to Coos County for
the purpose of providing transportation services  to the Roseburg Veterans Affairs Medical
Center for veterans residing in Coos County.
SECTION 2. In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there  is appropri-
ated to the Oregon Department of Administrative Services,  for the biennium beginning July
1, 2025, out of the General Fund,  the amount of $  for distribution to Curry County
for the purpose of providing transportation services to the Roseburg Veterans Affairs Med-
ical Center for veterans residing in Curry County.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2938