1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 3233
Sponsored by Representative NATHANSON,  Senator GORSEK; Representatives GAMBA, MANNIX, Senators
ANDERSON, FREDERICK, PHAM K, WOODS (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act  tells ODOT to team up with the State of Washington and Vancouver, B.C., to
make plans for rail. The Act tells ODOT to report every two years to the  JCT. (Flesch Readability
Score:  79.5).
Directs the Department of Transportation  to work with the Washington State Department of
Transportation and the British  Columbia Ministry of Transportation and Infrastructure to develop
plans to operate and fund rail transportation.
Directs the Department of Transportation to submit biennial reports  on plans to the interim
committees of Legislative Assembly related to transportation.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to rail.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Department of Transportation shall work with the  Washington State
Department of Transportation, the British  Columbia Ministry of Transportation and
Infrastructure and  other public bodies, as appropriate, to document and memorialize, in
whatever form is  the most appropriate, a shared regional approach to Cascades passenger
rail planning, funding and communications including:
(a) Developing a plan to  document the shared vision, goals and objectives for passenger
rail service and freight rail service within the Cascades Rail Corridor.
(b) Developing a plan to achieve performance goals,  manage fleet assets, share costs,
prioritize investments, improve infrastructure and resolve interagency disputes.
(c) Proposing funding options to  the respective legislative bodies to support the
infrastructure improvements and operation of passenger and freight trains within the corri-
dor.
(d) Developing federal funding applications consistent with  the shared plans described in
paragraphs (a) and (b) of this subsection.
(e) Developing a stakeholder outreach program.
(f) Overseeing operations and marketing of daily passenger rail service in the corridor.
(2) The Department of Transportation may enter into  agreements with the Washington
State Department of Transportation to coordinate shared passenger rail service  development
plans.
(3) As used  in this section, “public body” has the meaning given that term in ORS 174.109.
SECTION 2.
Before January 1 of each odd-numbered year, the Department of Transpor-
tation shall submit a report to the  interim Joint Committee on Transportation, in the man-
ner provided in ORS 192.245, about the following:
(1) The status of the shared regional approach and plans with the Washington  State De-
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1644
HB 3233
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
partment of Transportation and the  British Columbia Ministry of Transportation and
Infrastructure regarding transportation by rail within the Cascades Rail Corridor.
(2) The performance of passenger rail service within the corridor.
(3) The financial  status of the corridor and financial needs for passenger rail service
within the corridor.
SECTION 3.
The Department of Transportation may enter into agreements with the
Washington State Department of Transportation and other governmental entities  in order
to collaborate on developing shared objectives for  passenger and freight rail, developing re-
gional approaches to rail infrastructure improvements and  enabling joint proposals to federal
and other funding sources.
[2]