1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 530
Sponsored by Senator PATTERSON; Senators GELSER BLOUIN, REYNOLDS, Representatives CHAICHI,  MARSH
(Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act makes changes to a law about groups that work on health equity.  (Flesch
Readability Score: 83.8).
Requires the Oregon Health Authority to adjust for  inflation the amount of any grant awarded
to a regional health equity coalition.
Declares an emergency, effective July 1, 2025.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to regional health equity coalitions; amending ORS 413.256; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 413.256 is amended to read:
413.256. (1) As used in this section:
(a) “Communities of color”  means members of racial or ethnic communities as prescribed by the
Oregon Health Authority by rule.
(b) “Community-led” means based on a set of core principles that, at a minimum, engages  the
people living in a geographic community to establish goals and priorities, using local  residents as
leaders, building on strengths rather than  focusing on problems and involving cross-sector collab-
oration that is intentional and adaptable and works to achieve systemic change.
(c) “Cross-sector” means involving  individuals, public and private institutions and communities
working together to address the social determinants of health and equity.
(d) “Culturally specific” means led by individuals from the community served,  using language,
structures and settings familiar to the members of the community.
(e) “Regional health equity coalition” means an autonomous, community-led, cross-sector  group
that:
(A) Is  focused on addressing, at the policy, system and environmental levels, health inequities
experienced by priority populations, with the leading priority being communities of color;
(B) Is completely  independent of coordinated care organizations and public bodies as defined in
ORS 174.109;
(C) Is supported by a federally recognized  Indian tribe in Oregon or one of the following
community-based nonprofit entities:
(i) A culturally specific organization;
(ii) A social service provider;
(iii) An organization that provides health care;
(iv) An organization that conducts public health research;
(v) An organization that provides behavioral health treatment;
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 256
SB 530
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
(vi) A private foundation; or
(vii) A faith-based organization; and
(D) Has a decision-making body that:
(i) Is composed 51 percent or more of individuals who  identify as members of communities of
color who have experienced health inequities; and
(ii) Prioritizes the recruitment of members  who identify as members of communities of color or
who work in roles that address health inequities and institutional racism.
(f) “Regional health equity coalition model” means an approach that:
(A) Recognizes the impact of structural, institutional and  interpersonal racism on the health and
well-being of communities of color and other priority populations;
(B) Meaningfully engages priority populations to lead efforts to address health inequities;
(C) Supports and strengthens leadership development for priority populations; and
(D) Honors the wisdom of  members of priority populations by ensuring that policy solutions and
system changes build upon the strengths of the priority populations.
(g) “Priority populations” means:
(A) Communities of color;
(B) Oregon’s nine federally recognized Indian tribes, including  descendants of the members of
Oregon’s nine federally recognized Indian tribes;
(C) Immigrants and refugees;
(D) Migrant and seasonal farmworkers;
(E) Low-income individuals and families;
(F) Persons with disabilities; and
(G) Individuals who identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender or queer or  who question
their sexual or gender identity.
(2) The  authority shall work with regional health equity coalitions , using a regional health
equity coalition model, to ensure service to priority populations throughout this state .
(3)(a) The authority shall provide grants to regional health equity  coalitions for
programmatic and staffing costs.
(b) The authority shall  annually adjust the amount of grants awarded under paragraph
(a) of this subsection to  reflect any percentage increase in the cost of living for the previous
calendar year, based on changes in the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers,
West Region (All Items), as  published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the United States
Department of Labor.
[(3)] (4) The authority shall ensure that it has adequate staffing to support grantees through
ongoing technical assistance, contract administration, program  planning and daily operational sup-
port.
SECTION 2.
This 2025 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist,  and this 2025 Act takes effect
July 1, 2025.
[2]