1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 979
Sponsored by COMMITTEE ON EDUCATION
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act tells HECC to study  higher learning for people with a disability. The Act de-
clares an emergency and becomes law  when the Governor signs it. (Flesch Readability Score: 60.2).
Directs the Higher  Education Coordinating Commission to conduct a study on ensuring post-
secondary  educational  opportunities for individuals with disabilities. Directs the commission to
convene an advisory group for purposes of the study. Directs  the commission to report to the
Legislative Assembly by September 15, 2026.
Sunsets on January 2, 2027.
Declares an emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to  a study on post-secondary educational opportunities for individuals with disabilities; and
declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) As used in this section:
(a) “Disabilities” includes intellectual and developmental disabilities, physical  disabilities,
conditions that require the use of mobility aids,  mental illness, neurodiverse conditions, vi-
sion impairment, deafness and hearing impairment, acquired  brain injuries and acquired
spinal injuries.
(b) “Neurodiverse conditions” includes autism, attention  deficit hyperactivity disorder,
dyslexia, dyscalculia and obsessive-compulsive disorder.
(2) The Higher Education Coordinating Commission shall conduct a study on ensuring
post-secondary educational opportunities for individuals with disabilities. For purposes of  the
study, the commission shall convene an  advisory group and shall consult with the advisory
group to receive information that would assist  the commission in investigating whether
statutory changes, institutional policy changes or  financial investments would improve the
experience and outcomes of students with disabilities.
(3)(a) The advisory group convened for purposes  of the study conducted under this sec-
tion must be appointed by the executive director of the  Higher Education Coordinating
Commission and must include:
(A) The director of the diversity, equity, inclusion and access unit of  the commission, or
the director’s designee;
(B) One representative  of an organization or nonprofit corporation that advocates for
individuals with disabilities;
(C) One representative of a statewide organization representing students;
(D) Two faculty members of community colleges  who have experience working with stu-
dents with disabilities;
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2829
SB 979
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
(E) Two faculty members of public universities  who have experience working with stu-
dents with disabilities;
(F) Two staff members who work in a disability resource center at  a community college;
(G) Two staff members who work in a disability resource center at a public university;
(H) Two students with disabilities who attend a community college; and
(I) Two students with disabilities who attend a public university.
(b) The commission shall solicit nominations from  organizations representing faculty,
students and community colleges to determine the membership of the advisory group.
(4) Not later than December 15, 2025, the advisory group shall submit to  the commission
a report on the study conducted under this section.
(5) The  commission shall submit a report in the manner provided by ORS 192.245, and
may include recommendations for legislation,  to the interim committees of the Legislative
Assembly related to higher education no later than September 15, 2026.
SECTION 2.
Section 1 of this 2025 Act is repealed on January 2, 2027.
SECTION 3. This 2025 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist,  and this 2025 Act takes effect
on its passage.
[2]