1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 3500
Sponsored by Representative DRAZAN
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act  would bar city councillors from running for reelection before the last election
held before the end of their current term. The  Act would make an exception for a councillor who
has moved from one district in the city to another. (Flesch Readability Score: 62.6).
Provides that a city councillor may not seek reelection prior to the last election held before  the
expiration of the councillor’s current term. Provides an exception if the  city councillors are elected
by district and the councillor has changed residence from one district to another.
Takes effect on the 91st day following adjournment sine die.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to city councillors seeking reelection before the  expiration of their current term; and pre-
scribing an effective date.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) Except as  otherwise provided in a city’s charter, a city councillor may
not seek reelection to the city council at any  election held prior to the last election before
the expiration of the councillor’s current term of office.
(2) Subsection (1) of this section does not apply in a city  in which councillors are elected
by districts according to residency if the  councillor has changed residence from one district
to another in time to  establish eligibility for an election held prior to the last election before
the expiration of the councillor’s current term of office.
SECTION 2. This 2025 Act takes effect on the 91st day after the date on which the 2025
regular session of the Eighty-third Legislative Assembly adjourns sine die.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 3966