1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2024 Regular Session
House Bill 4105
Sponsored by Representative REYNOLDS, Senators MANNING JR, PATTERSON,  Representative NGUYEN H,
Senator ANDERSON; Representatives BOWMAN, DEXTER, ELMER, GRAYBER, NOSSE, SCHARF,  SMITH
G, Senators DEMBROW, GELSER BLOUIN, KNOPP,  SOLLMAN, WEBER (at the request of Nurse-Family
Partnership) (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act gives money to OHA to pay  for some of the costs of the program in which
nurses visit families while a parent is pregnant and for two years after that. (Flesch Readability
Score: 63.4).
Appropriates moneys to the Oregon Health Authority for the  costs of targeted case management
services provided in the nurse  home visiting services program for families during pregnancy and for
two years after the pregnancy.
Declares an emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to programs  providing targeted case management nursing services to perinatal families; and
declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there  is appropri-
ated to the Oregon Health Authority, for the  biennium ending June 30, 2025, out of the
General Fund, the amount of $3,155,147,  which shall be expended to provide the nonfederal
matching share required for costs of targeted case management services in the Nurse-Family
Partnership nurse home visiting services program.
SECTION 2. This 2024 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the  public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is  declared to exist, and this 2024 Act takes effect
on its passage.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 189