1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 3319
Sponsored by Representative EVANS
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act would allow for lower  premiums for a type of insurance in some situations.
(Flesch Readability Score: 61.8).
Permits the State Accident Insurance Fund Corporation to  evaluate the risk the corporation has
insured for employers during  the past three years and reduce the premium the corporation charges
the employer to reflect any  reductions or mitigations in risk that result from an agreement between
the employer and the corporation.  Permits the corporation to specify in an agreement with the
person that owns a new business or  that assumes ownership of an existing business conditions under
which the corporation will charge the person a reduced premium rate  for a probationary period
during which the corporation evaluates the person’s adherence to the terms of the agreement.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to the authority of the State Accident Insurance Fund Corporation to set premium rates.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
Section 2 of this 2025 Act is added to and made a part of ORS chapter 656.
SECTION 2. The State Accident Insurance Fund Corporation, in setting premium rates
for workers’ compensation insurance, may:
(1) Evaluate the risk the corporation has  insured for employers during the past three
years and reduce the premium the corporation charges an employer to reflect reductions or
mitigations in the risk that result from  an agreement between the employer and the corpo-
ration.
(2) Specify in an agreement with a person that owns a  new business or that assumes
ownership of an existing business conditions under which the corporation will  charge the
person a reduced premium rate for a probationary period during  which the corporation
evaluates the person’s adherence to  the terms of the agreement. If the person adheres to
the agreement,  the corporation may extend the reduced premium rate for an additional pe-
riod. If during  the probationary period the person does not adhere to the agreement, the
corporation may rescind the reduced premium rate and may charge a premium  rate that
reflects the corporation’s assessment of the risk the person presents.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2220