1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2686
Sponsored by Representative RUIZ, Senator FREDERICK;  Representative HUDSON, Senator GORSEK (Presession
filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act gives  funding to HECC for a program to re-enroll people into certain programs.
(Flesch Readability Score: 61.8).
Provides funding to the Higher Education Coordinating Commission  for purposes of providing
a grant to an organization that manages a statewide strategy to re-enroll residents of this state  into
certain programs.
Declares an emergency, effective July 1, 2025.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to re-enrollment of residents; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
The Higher Education Coordinating Commission shall provide a grant to an
organization that manages a statewide coordinated strategy to re-enroll residents of  this
state who have some college education, and no  credential, into public higher education, ap-
prenticeship and workforce training programs. The  strategy must include data analytics,
multichannel marketing, live professional coaching and a platform-based user experience.
SECTION 2. In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there is appropri-
ated to the Higher Education Coordinating Commission, for the biennium beginning  July 1,
2025, out of the General Fund, the amount of  for purposes of providing the  grant
required under section 1 of this 2025 Act.
SECTION 3. This 2025 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist,  and this 2025 Act takes effect
July 1, 2025.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2813