1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2827
Sponsored by Representative EVANS (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act says that the Governor may require persons to make,  sell or supply goods if
needed for an emergency. (Flesch Readability Score: 63.8).
Authorizes the Governor, if necessitated by an emergency, to require any person  in this state
to accept and fulfill orders for the manufacture, sale or distribution of certain goods. Specifies  con-
ditions under which a person may reject  such orders. Provides that a person that accepts an order
is not liable  for contractual damages resulting from an act or omission necessary for compliance
with the Act.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to goods necessary to address emergencies.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
Section 2 of this  2025 Act is added to and made a part of ORS 401.165 to
401.236.
SECTION 2. (1) During a state of emergency, the Governor may, if necessitated by the
emergency, require any person in this state to:
(a) Accept and fulfill orders from the Governor for the manufacture,  sale or distribution
of goods necessary to protect public safety; and
(b) Prioritize the acceptance  and fulfillment of such orders over the acceptance and
performance of other orders.
(2) Notwithstanding subsection (1) of this  section, a person may reject an order made
under this section if:
(a) The order is for goods or services that the person does not provide in the ordinary
course of business; or
(b) While prioritizing the order over other orders, the  person is unable to fulfill the order
due to limitations in the person’s facilities or workforce.
(3) A person may not  discriminate against orders made under this section in any manner,
including by charging higher prices or by imposing different terms and conditions than for
comparable orders in the ordinary course of business.
(4) A person that accepts  an order under this section is not liable for contractual dam-
ages resulting from any act or omission that is necessary for compliance with this section.NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2259