1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2024 Regular Session
Senate Concurrent Resolution 208
Sponsored by Senators WAGNER, HANSELL; Representatives LEVY B, SMITH G (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Honors  a music group for promoting the arts in Oregon. (Flesch Readability Score: 61.3).
Commemorates the 25th anniversary of the founding of Inland Northwest Musicians.
CONCURRENT RESOLUTION
Whereas Inland Northwest Musicians was founded  in 1999 on five core beliefs: that music is for
everyone; that audiences everywhere  deserve to experience live performances of the world’s greatest
music; that all musicians deserve to develop their talent; that music is a lifelong  pursuit that con-
tributes to health and well-being; and that  a regional arts organization should truly represent and
serve the region; and
Whereas Inland Northwest Musicians was formed with a vision to  create a symphony orchestra
and chorale organization that was uniquely driven by the values and beliefs  upon which it was
founded; and
Whereas at the time of its  founding, Inland Northwest Musicians brought unprecedented support
for local musicians to rural northeast Oregon and  southeast Washington, welcoming performers of
all skill levels; and
Whereas Inland Northwest Musicians operates three performance ensembles under the direction
of conductor R. Lee Friese, including a full symphony orchestra, a symphonic chorale group and a
youth/preparatory orchestra; and
Whereas Inland Northwest Musicians ensembles have performed more than  500 concerts in 50
communities throughout northeast Oregon and southeast Washington; and
Whereas Inland Northwest Musicians was one of  the first organizations in Oregon to receive
funding from the Oregon Cultural Trust; and
Whereas Inland Northwest Musicians is a staunch supporter of  youth music instruction, both
within and outside of the school setting; and
Whereas Inland Northwest Musicians has helped celebrate countless milestones  in the commu-
nities it serves, including  the one-hundredth anniversary of the Morrow County Courthouse, the
Heppner St. Patrick’s Day Celebration and the  one-hundredth anniversary of the Pendleton
Seventh-day Adventist Church, all in  2002; the opening of the remodeled Echo Community Center in
2003; the Centennial Celebration of Connell, Washington, in  2010; and the decommissioning cere-
mony for the Umatilla Chemical Depot in 2012; and
Whereas Inland Northwest Musicians serves underserved populations in  communities of all sizes
throughout northeast Oregon and southeast Washington and  in wildly varied venues, including
schools, churches, community centers, prisons and outdoor settings; now, therefore,
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 278
SCR 208
1
2
3
4
That we, the members of the  Eighty-second Legislative Assembly, celebrate the 25th anniversary
of the founding of Inland Northwest Musicians, and we recognize  and honor the organization’s in-
comparable contributions to the arts in northeast Oregon and southeast Washington.
[2]