1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Concurrent Resolution 30
Sponsored by Senator WEBER; Senators ANDERSON, BONHAM, GIROD,  LINTHICUM, MCLANE, NASH,
ROBINSON, SMITH DB, STARR, THATCHER, Representatives BOICE, HELFRICH, LEVY B, MANNIX,
MCINTIRE, NOSSE, RESCHKE, SMITH G
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Names a  day in April 2025 Purple Up! Day for Month of the Military Child in Oregon.
(Flesch Readability Score: 63.8).
Designates April 10, 2025, as Purple Up! Day for Month of the Military Child.
CONCURRENT RESOLUTION
Whereas Oregonians appreciate  the sacrifices made by our servicemen and women who defend
our country against all enemies, foreign and domestic; and
Whereas the children of military families face unique challenges and we  appreciate their
strength and sacrifices as they support  their enlisted family members, at times enduring long periods
of separation; and
Whereas the children of military families are directly impacted  by the deployment of one, and
sometimes both, parents  on full-time duty status in military service, including members of the Na-
tional Guard and Reserves on active duty orders; and
Whereas we acknowledge the role we play in supporting the  children of military families to help
them be successful in life, in educational pursuits and in community involvement  while their parents
are deployed; and
Whereas Month of the Military Child was established in 1986 to recognize military  children for
their commitment, sacrifice, strength and unconditional support of our troops and to remind  us of
the opportunity to provide support and encouragement; and
Whereas as part of Month of the Military Child, there has been  a growing trend to establish a
day of recognition honoring the children of servicemen and women, and this  day of recognition is
known as Purple Up! Day; and
Whereas thousands of brave Oregonians are demonstrating  their courage and commitment to
freedom by serving in the Armed Forces of the United States of America here at home and abroad;
and
Whereas Oregon has more  than 10,000 children with a parent or parents currently serving in
the military, and hundreds  more children in Oregon are connected to the military through the ser-
vice of siblings, aunts, uncles or grandparents; and
Whereas these children are a source of pride and  honor for us all, and it is only fitting that
we take time to recognize their contributions, celebrate  their spirit and let our men and women in
uniform know that while they are taking care of us, we are taking care of their children; now,
therefore,
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 4814
SCR 30
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
That we, the members of the Eighty-third Legislative Assembly, designate April 10,  2025, as
Purple Up! Day for Month of the Military Child in Oregon; and be it further
Resolved, That we encourage all Oregonians to wear purple, the color symbolizing all  branches
of the military, as a visible show of support  and appreciation for military children for their com-
mitment, their sacrifice and their unconditional support of our service members,  because when par-
ents serve in the military, their children serve too.
[2]