1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2023 Regular Session
House Bill 2650
Sponsored by Representative BYNUM (at the request of Transforming Justice Coalition) (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Establishes requirements for informal workgroups and task forces.
Directs Oregon Department of  Administrative Services to establish program for compensating
eligible members of informal  workgroups and task forces. Appropriates moneys from General Fund
to department for program.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to groups assembled to discuss policy.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) As used in sections 1 and 2 of this 2023 Act:
(a) “Community-based organization” means an organization that  is led by a represen-
tative of a community or a significant segment  of a community and works to meet commu-
nity needs and amplify strengths.
(b) “Community member” means an  individual who has personal interactions or personal
lived experience with the policy being discussed.
(c) “Impacted person” means  an individual whose life was directly impacted by a policy
being discussed.
(d) “Informal workgroup”  means a group of more than eight individuals assembled by a
member of the Legislative Assembly, a state agency or the Judicial Department that is  not
created by statute and is assembled for  the purpose of discussing proposed legislation or
recommendations for legislation over the course of more than four meetings.
(e) “State government” has the meaning given that term in ORS 174.111.
(f) “Task force” means a group,  created by statute for the purpose of discussing proposed
legislation or recommendations for legislation, that lasts no longer than two years.
(2) An informal workgroup or task force established by an agency of  state government
must meet the following requirements:
(a) Representatives  of community-based organizations, community members and im-
pacted persons must comprise at least 50 percent of the membership  of the informal
workgroup or task force.
(b) People of color must  comprise at least 25 percent of the membership of the informal
workgroup or task force.
(c) The membership of the informal workgroup or task force must include members  of
historically underrepresented and marginalized communities or representatives of organiza-
tions that provide culturally specific services.
(d) Members of the informal workgroup or task force must  be compensated for time and
travel.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1461
HB 2650
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
(e) Meetings of the informal workgroup or  task force must be scheduled at times that
are convenient for members participating outside of their paid employment, school, parenting
or other community responsibilities.
SECTION 2.
(1) The  Oregon Department of Administrative Services shall establish a
program for processing  applications for payment to representatives of community-based or-
ganizations, community members and impacted persons who serve on  informal workgroups
and task forces.
(2) The department shall accept applications from authorities responsible  for appointing
members of informal workgroups and task forces for funding from  the program to compen-
sate eligible members.
(3) The department may adopt rules to implement the program described  in this section.
(4) The department shall collect data on the composition and  expenditures of informal
workgroups and task forces.
SECTION 3. In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there  is appropri-
ated to the Oregon Department of Administrative Services,  for the biennium beginning July
1, 2023, out of the General Fund, the  amount of $_______, which may be expended for pur-
poses of  providing compensation to members of informal workgroups and task forces under
section 2 of this 2023 Act.
[2]