1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
81st OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2021 Regular Session
Senate Bill 433
Sponsored by Senator MANNING JR (at  the request of Kyndall Mason - SEIU Local 503 - OPEU) (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Requires Department of Human Services to adopt rules for Long Term Care  Quality Workforce
Employer and Labor Partnership eligible to receive increased Medicaid reimbursement to  raise
hourly wages or base salaries of direct care  staff in skilled nursing facilities and certain residential
care facilities. Rules must include requirements for Long Term Care  Quality Workforce Employer
and Labor Partnership to establish training  standards, provide scholarships to direct care staff, en-
sure specified staffing standards at participating facilities and perform other specified functions.
Requires Oregon Health Authority and department to work together  to adopt uniform financial
reporting requirements across all skilled nursing facilities and certain residential care facilities.
Appropriates moneys to department to distribute as seed money to Long Term Care  Quality
Workforce Employer and Labor Partnership for training and scholarships for direct care staff.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to providers of residential care.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) As used in this section:
(a) “Direct care staff” means employees of a residential care facility or  a skilled nursing
facility whose primary responsibilities are to provide personal care services  to residents, in-
cluding but not limited to:
(A) Administering medications;
(B) Coordinating resident-focused activities;
(C) Supervising and supporting residents;
(D) Supporting activities of daily living, including  but not limited to bathing, dressing,
eating and transferring; and
(E) Serving but not preparing meals.
(b) “Employer” means an owner or operator of a residential care  facility or skilled
nursing facility.
(c) “Residential care facility” means a facility described in ORS 443.400 (7)(a).
(d) “Skilled nursing facility” has the meaning given that term in ORS 442.015.
(2) Employers may participate in a Long Term Care Quality Workforce Employer  and
Labor Partnership meeting criteria  adopted by the Department of Human Services by rule.
Residential care facilities and skilled nursing facilities participating in  the partnership will
receive an increase of 10 percent  in the Medicaid reimbursement paid by the department or
the Oregon Health Authority.  Employers must use at least 75 percent of the increased re-
imbursement to raise hourly wages or base salaries of the direct care staff  at their facilities.
(3) Rules adopted by the department under subsection (2) of this  section shall ensure
that:
(a) A Long Term Care Quality Workforce Employer and Labor Partnership:
(A) Has a governing body composed equally of members who are direct care  staff and are
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2248
SB 433
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
representative of the racial and ethnic  diversity of the direct care staff workforce in this
state and employers; and
(B) Establishes and contributes to a fund to provide:
(i) Scholarships for direct care staff desiring  to advance their education, with priority
given to direct  care staff who face multiple institutional barriers to advancement such as
people of color or those with limited English proficiency; and
(ii) Trainings described in paragraph (c) of this subsection;
(b) Employers participating in a Long Term Care Quality Workforce Employer and Labor
Partnership:
(A) Use increased reimbursement  under subsection (2) of this section to raise hourly
wages or base salaries of direct care staff;
(B) Employ the number of licensed nursing staff and direct care staff to:
(i) Properly assess the needs of residents;
(ii) Develop and implement resident care plans;
(iii) Provide direct care services to residents; and
(iv) Perform other related activities to maintain the health, safety and welfare  of the
residents; and
(C) Have a registered nurse in each  facility 24 hours per day and employ and schedule
additional staff in each facility as needed to:
(i) Ensure quality care for  residents in case of a disease outbreak, fire or other similar
occurrence;
(ii) Address the medical acuity of the residents of the facility; and
(iii) Comply with state and federal staffing requirements; and
(c) Participants in a Long Term Care Quality  Workforce Employer and Labor Partner-
ship, both employers and direct care staff, collaborate to create standards applicable to all
participants in the Long Term Care  Quality Workforce Employer and Labor Partnership for:
(A) Training new direct care staff and how to  provide the training, including remote ac-
cess and language accessibility options; and
(B) Continuing education for existing direct care staff that includes training  to give di-
rect care staff opportunities for career advancement.
(4) A Long Term Care Quality Workforce Employer and Labor Partnership  shall annually
report to the department on the activities of the partnership including the:
(a) Number of trainings  provided and the hours of training completed by direct care staff;
(b) Racial and ethnic composition of direct care staff who received training;
(c) Number of trainings offered in languages other than English; and
(d) Name of each employer participating in the  Long Term Care Quality Workforce Em-
ployer and  Labor Partnership and the number and geographic dispersion of employers par-
ticipating in the partnership.
SECTION 2.
The Oregon Health Authority and the Department of Human Services shall
work together to adopt uniform financial  reporting requirements across all skilled nursing
facilities, as defined in ORS 442.015, and residential care facilities, as described in ORS 443.400
(7)(a).
SECTION 3. In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there is appropri-
ated to the Department of Human Services,  for the biennium beginning July 1, 2021, out of
the General Fund, the amount of $1,500,000, to distribute to  a Long Term Care Quality
[2]
SB 433
1
2
3
Workforce Employer and Labor Partnership as seed money for the  fund described in section
1 (3)(a)(B) of this 2021 Act.
[3]