1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2026 Regular Session
House Bill 4108
Sponsored by Representative FRAGALA; Representatives DOBSON, HARBICK, LEVY B, MUNOZ, Senators
FREDERICK, MANNING JR, NASH, SMITH DB (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: This Act requires  a city to allow some property to join the city in some circumstances.
(Flesch Readability Score: 63.6).
Requires a city to annex noncontiguous land upon receipt of a petition from  all owners of the
land that satisfies four eligibility criteria.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to annexation of land noncontiguous to a city.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) Notwithstanding any contrary provision of a city charter or ordinance,
upon receipt of a petition proposing annexation of noncontiguous land submitted by all  own-
ers of the  land, the legislative body of the city shall annex the land without holding a public
hearing or submitting the proposal to the electors of the city if:
(a) The land is located within the city’s acknowledged urban growth boundary.
(b) The land is designated for residential or mixed  use on the city’s acknowledged com-
prehensive plan, excluding land designated for heavy industrial uses.
(c) The land is connected to and  receives all utilities provided by the city, including, if
applicable, water, sewer and electricity.
(d) The land is accessible by public road.
(2) Upon determining that the noncontiguous land  proposed for annexation satisfies the
criteria described under subsection (1) of this section, the legislative body of the city  may,
by resolution  or ordinance, declare that the land is annexed to the city and set the final
boundaries of the area to be annexed by a legal description.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 34