1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2023 Regular Session
House Bill 2691
Sponsored by Representative NATHANSON, Senator GORSEK; Representatives DEXTER,  LEVY B, Senators
DEMBROW, PATTERSON (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced.
Provides that any agreement related to providing ultra-high-speed ground transportation in this
state must include service to Eugene.
Prohibits Department of Transportation from expending in  any biennium more than 50 percent,
or $1 million, whichever is less,  of moneys available to department for passenger rail service, on
ultra-high-speed ground transportation.
Declares emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to rail transportation; and declaring an emergency.
Whereas the Pacific Northwest Rail Corridor, Cascades Rail Corridor, is one of 11  federally
designated high-speed rail corridors in the United States; and
Whereas the 462-mile Cascades Rail Corridor serves the most densely populated areas  of the
Cascadia region, linking Vancouver, British Columbia to Eugene, Oregon; and
Whereas additional rail transportation infrastructure  is necessary to address the congested
roads and airports in the Cascades Rail Corridor; and
Whereas the feasibility of developing ultra-high-speed ground  transportation along the Cascades
Rail Corridor requires a strong passenger rail service system; and
Whereas ultra-high-speed ground transportation  is not intended to wholly replace the Amtrak
Cascades intercity passenger rail system but instead  serve as an additional, supplementary travel
option throughout the region; and
Whereas continuing to  improve existing passenger rail service speed, reliability, and frequency
serves the transportation system immediately and helps build train ridership; and
Whereas it is vital that  efforts to develop ultra-high-speed ground transportation in the region
must include service to Eugene, Oregon; now, therefore,
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Department of Transportation is authorized to enter into agreements
with other  jurisdictions related to mutual planning for improved passenger rail service, in-
cluding ultra-high-speed ground  transportation, within the Cascades Rail Corridor. Any
agreement related to ultra-high-speed ground  transportation in this state must include pro-
viding service to Eugene. The department may adopt rules  necessary to implement any
agreement established under this section.
(2) The department may not  expend in any biennium more than 50 percent, or $1 million,
whichever is less,  of the moneys available to the department for passenger rail service, on
ultra-high-speed ground transportation.
SECTION 2. This 2023 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2896
HB 2691
1
2
3
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist,  and this 2023 Act takes effect
on its passage.
[2]