1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2378
Sponsored by Representative LEVY B (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act requires the creation of a lumber grading training program at OSU. The Act
requires DCBS to create a process for certain people to obtain lumber  from those who have gone
through the program. (Flesch Readability Score: 68.2).
Requires the Dean of the College of Forestry  at Oregon State University to establish a lumber
grading training program at the university. Establishes the  requirements of the program. Requires
the State Board of Forestry to establish a certification  process for those individuals who have suc-
cessfully completed the lumber grading training program.
Requires the Department of Consumer and Business Services to establish  a process by which
specified individuals may obtain lumber from an individual who is  certified as having completed the
lumber grading training program.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to lumber grading training program.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Dean of the College  of Forestry at Oregon State University, in con-
sultation with the Forestry Education Council and the State  Board of Forestry, shall estab-
lish a  basic lumber grading training program to be offered annually at Oregon State
University. Establishment of the program under  this subsection must include a determi-
nation of the:
(a) General requirements for successfully completing the program;
(b) Requirements for initial certification and recertification;
(c) Content of the program; and
(d) Certification requirements for instructors teaching the program.
(2) The State  Board of Forestry, in consultation with the Dean of the College of Forestry
at Oregon State University and the Forestry Education Council, shall establish a  procedure
under which the board shall:
(a) Determine successful completion of the program established under subsection  (1) of
this section;
(b) Issue certifications to instructors teaching the program; and
(c) Issue  certifications and recertifications to those individuals who have successfully
completed the program.
(3) The board may exempt from the program established under subsection  (1) of this
section an individual who:
(a) Obtains a degree related to forest and wood products.
(b) Has the experience  or background in understanding wood properties, construction and
design that the board determines to  be equivalent to the understanding held by an individual
who successfully completes the program.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 891
HB 2378
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
(4) An individual who holds an initial certification as having successfully completed the
program established under subsection  (1) of this section and an individual who is exempt
from the program under subsection (3) of this section must be recertified every five years.
SECTION 2.
(1) The Department of Consumer and Business Services shall  establish by
rule a process by which a builder,  designer or owner may use lumber that is tested and ap-
proved by an individual who is certified under section 1 of this 2025 Act.
(2) The process established under subsection (1) of this section must require:
(a) For one-family and two-family  dwellings, that a person may use laod-bearing dimen-
sion lumber that has been approved for use only in accordance with the following:
(A) The lumber is milled at the request of the person who  owns the lumber for use in the
construction of  the dwelling, and the dwelling will be inhabited by the person owning the
lumber.
(B) The person milling the lumber sells the lumber directly  to a person who will inhabit
the dwelling, or to a person acting on the inhabitant’s behalf and for whom a building  permit
has been issued for the dwelling.
(b) For multifamily dwellings, that a  person may use load-bearing dimension lumber that
has been approved for use only in accordance with the following:
(A) The lumber has  been milled at the request of the person owning the lumber for use
in the construction of the multifamily dwelling, a dwelling unit of which will be inhabited by
the person owning the lumber.
(B) The person milling the lumber sells  the lumber directly to the person who will inhabit
the dwelling unit in the multifamily dwelling, or to a person acting on the  inhabitant’s behalf
and for whom a building permit has been issued for the multifamily dwelling.
(c) The lumber that is milled for purposes of paragraph (a) or (b) of this  subsection be
milled so that it meets  or exceeds the requirements established by the department. The de-
partment shall design and provide forms that must  be used to certify that the lumber meets
or exceeds the requirements.
(d) That a person may not provide a  certification under paragraph (c) of this subsection
unless that person has been issued a certificate under section 1 of this  2025 Act within the
preceding five years of providing the certification.
(e) That upon receipt of a copy of the  certification issued under paragraph (c) of this
subsection, an  inspector who is licensed by the department may authorize the use of the
lumber, reject the  use of the lumber or authorize use of the lumber subject to more re-
strictive construction requirements.
[2]