1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2023 Regular Session
Senate Bill 539
Sponsored by Senator SOLLMAN; Senators CAMPOS, GELSER BLOUIN, MANNING JR,  Representative MCLAIN
(Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Requires Oregon Health Authority to conduct  study and develop recommendations for classi-
fication system for  traumatic brain injuries and training for first responders and law enforcement
in identifying symptoms of traumatic brain injuries,  acquired brain injuries and post-traumatic stress
syndrome and training on appropriate referrals for services and treatment.
Sunsets January 2, 2025.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to trauma-induced injuries.
Whereas individuals with traumatic brain injuries often face many challenges due to  their inju-
ries, especially  with respect to accessing health care, finding employment and participating in ev-
eryday life; and
Whereas most  survivors of traumatic brain injuries lack access to high quality and affordable
health care and face barriers to accessing rehabilitation services; and
Whereas individuals with traumatic brain injuries, acquired brain  injuries or post-traumatic
stress syndrome may have symptoms from their injuries  that make it difficult for them to understand
and follow directions or communicate  clearly with first responders, which may result in first
responders’ failing to route the individuals for proper care; and
Whereas law enforcement officers sometimes confuse symptoms of brain injuries for  erratic be-
havior or may assume an individual is  intoxicated from drugs or alcohol, which can lead to the
individual’s arrest, during which no medical aid is offered and the injuries may worsen; and
Whereas an established and recognized classification system for  traumatic brain injuries and
properly trained and situationally aware first  responders and law enforcement officers may lower
incarceration rates of individuals with traumatic brain injuries and provide  the individuals with a
path to a health care network where they can receive appropriate services; now, therefore,
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Oregon Health Authority shall conduct a  study and develop recom-
mendations for:
(a) A classification system for traumatic  brain injuries that could be used to evaluate
eligibility for disability benefits and for insurance coverage of treatment  for traumatic brain
injuries; and
(b) Training for first responders and law enforcement officers in identifying symptoms
of traumatic brain injuries, acquired brain injuries and post-traumatic stress  syndrome and
training on appropriate referrals for services and treatment.
(2) No later than September 15, 2024,  the authority shall report, in the manner provided
in ORS 192.245, to the interim committees of  the Legislative Assembly related to health the
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1495
SB 539
1
2
3
4
results of  the study and recommendations, including recommendations for legislative
changes if needed.
SECTION 2.
Section 1 of this 2023 Act is repealed on January 2, 2025.
[2]