1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 911
Sponsored by Senator GELSER BLOUIN
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act directs DHS to adopt a method of payment for foster  child transition supports.
(Flesch Readability Score: 61.8).
Requires the  Department of Human Services to adopt a methodology for payments made to
providers of independent living transition services provided to foster children.
Takes effect on the 91st day following adjournment sine die.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to independent living transition services; and prescribing an effective date.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
The Department  of Human Services shall prescribe by rule a uniform pay-
ment methodology for providers  of independent living program transition services for foster
children that:
(1) Takes into consideration the number of  hours a provider spends providing in-person
services;
(2) Takes into  consideration the amount of time a provider spends on outreach to foster
children who are difficult to reach, including  time locating and communicating with foster
children and encouraging foster children to enroll in transition services; and
(3) Ensures adequate capacity  to provide services, based on the average monthly popu-
lation served over the prior 12 months, to ensure that staff  is not lost during participation
fluctuations.
SECTION 2. This 2025 Act takes effect on the 91st day after the date on  which the 2025
regular session of the Eighty-third Legislative Assembly adjourns sine die.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 3403