1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Joint Memorial 1
Introduced and  printed pursuant to House Rule 12.00. Presession filed (at the request of House Interim Committee
on Education for Representative Courtney Neron)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Urges Congress to spend more on schooling for disabled  students. (Flesch Readability
Score: 61.3).
Urges Congress to  fulfill its commitment to fully fund the Individuals with Disabilities Education
Act.
JOINT MEMORIAL
To the President of the United States and the Senate and the House of Representatives of the United
States of America, in Congress assembled:
We, your memorialists, the Eighty-third Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon,  in legisla-
tive session assembled, respectfully represent as follows:
Whereas in 1975, Congress enacted the Education for  All Handicapped Children Act (EHA) to
ensure that students with a disability are provided with a free  appropriate public education that is
tailored to their individual needs; and
Whereas in 1990, EHA was reauthorized and renamed the Individuals with Disabilities  Educa-
tion Act (IDEA); and
Whereas the goal of  IDEA is to provide students with disabilities the same opportunity for ed-
ucation as those students who do not have a disability; and
Whereas under IDEA, the federal government  committed to pay 40 percent of the average per
pupil expenditure for special education; and
Whereas Congress has fallen short of the IDEA funding commitment  every year since 1975; and
Whereas recent federal budgets have funded IDEA at approximately 13 percent of the  average
per pupil expenditure for special education; and
Whereas according to  the Congressional Research Service, the IDEA funding shortfall in the
2021-2022 school year nationwide was approximately $24 billion; and
Whereas IDEA was a  historic step forward, but since its passage Congress has failed to provide
the funding it promised; now, therefore,
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
That we, the members  of the Eighty-third Legislative Assembly, respectfully urge the Congress
of the United  States to fulfill its commitment to fully fund the Individuals with Disabilities Educa-
tion Act; and be it further
Resolved, That a copy of this memorial shall be sent to  the President of the United States, the
Senate Majority Leader, the Speaker of the House  of Representatives and each member of the
Oregon Congressional Delegation.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 867