1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 3529
Sponsored by Representative HARTMAN, Senators BROADMAN, GELSER  BLOUIN; Representatives FRAGALA,
GAMBA, GOMBERG, MCDONALD, WALTERS, Senators FREDERICK, MANNING JR, PATTERSON, WOODS
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act tells CIS to give training  on Indian tribes and tribal relations at least once per
calendar quarter. The Act requires Senate and House members and all legislative staff to attend  the
training at least once per year. (Flesch Readability Score: 65.5).
Directs the Executive Officer of the Commission  on Indian Services to provide training on tribes
and tribal relations  at least once per calendar quarter. Requires all members of the Legislative As-
sembly and all legislative staff to attend the training at least once annually.
Takes effect on the 91st day following adjournment sine die.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to tribal relations training for the legislative branch; and prescribing an effective date.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
Section 2 of this 2025 Act is added to and made a  part of ORS 172.100 to
172.140.
SECTION 2. (1) The Executive  Officer of the Commission on Indian Services shall at least
once per calendar quarter provide training on the following topics:
(a) Tribal sovereignty;
(b) Tribal relations with federally recognized Indian tribes and other tribes, bands or
groups that may be affected by the work of the Legislative Assembly;
(c) How to consult with the nine federally recognized Indian tribes in Oregon;
(d) The legal significance of consultation and standards for adequate consultation; and
(e) Tribal customs and how to be respectful of tribal customs.
(2) Each member of the Legislative Assembly and each  employee of the legislative branch
shall attend a training described in subsection (1) of this section at least once per year.
(3) The officer may choose one or more of the topics  described in subsection (1) of this
section for emphasis in any particular training being given.
(4) The commission may  appoint someone other than the officer to provide trainings
under this section.
SECTION 3.
This 2025 Act takes effect on the 91st day after the date on which the 2025
regular session of the Eighty-third Legislative Assembly adjourns sine die.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 3501