1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2393
Sponsored by Representative LEVY B, Senator THATCHER (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Tells schools to allow certain people to look at class materials.  (Flesch Readability
Score: 64.9).
Directs school districts to give parents, guardians and district  residents equitable access to in-
structional materials for the purpose of examining the materials.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to the examination of instructional materials; amending ORS 336.465.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 336.465 is amended to read:
336.465. (1) As used in this section, “equitable access” means access to instructional  ma-
terials that is provided by a school district in all of the following manners:
(a) At least 48 hours before the  materials will be used, on a public website of the school
district.
(b) Upon request, if access cannot be provided to the materials on a website  or if the
person making the request is unable to access materials  on a website. When access is re-
quested under this paragraph, materials must be made  available at the school where the
materials will be used or at the school  district’s main office, as designated by the person
making the request.
(c) At regularly scheduled in-person opportunities to review materials,  including school
or school district open houses.
[(1)] (2) Each school district shall:
(a) Give parents, guardians and district residents  [ an opportunity ] equitable access to examine
the instructional materials to be used in any class, course, assembly or school-sponsored activity.
(b) Inform parents or guardians in advance of any instruction on human sexuality or sexually
transmitted infections,  including human immunodeficiency virus, and give the parents or guardians
[an opportunity ] equitable access to review materials. At the  same time, parents or guardians shall
be informed that a pupil may not be required to take or participate  in any instruction on human
sexuality or human immunodeficiency virus  if the pupil’s parent or guardian, after having reviewed
the materials, submits written objection to the school district.
[(2)] (3) Refusal to take  or participate in any class, course, assembly or school-sponsored activity
on human sexuality or sexually transmitted infections, including human  immunodeficiency virus,
shall not be reason for harassment, suspension or expulsion of the pupil.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 994