1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 3201
Sponsored by Representative NGUYEN H;  Representative NERON, Senators FREDERICK, WEBER (Presession
filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Provides financial support for  food served under the CACFP. (Flesch Readability Score:
66.1).
Directs the Department of Education to implement policies  and procedures that increase access
to healthy and culturally-relevant food for children in child care.
Establishes the Child and Adult  Care Food Program Supplemental Fund for the purpose of in-
creasing access to healthy and culturally-relevant food for children in child care.
Appropriates moneys to the Department of Education from the General  Fund for the purpose
of creating culturally-specific menus.
Declares an emergency, effective July 1, 2025.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to food served under the Child and Adult Care Food Program; and declaring  an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Department of Education shall  implement policies and procedures
that increase the access to healthy and culturally-relevant foods for children in child care.
(2) Policies and procedures required under this section include:
(a) Increasing by 10 cents the reimbursement rate, as compared to the  federal re-
imbursement rate, for eligible meals and snacks served under the  federal Child and Adult
Care Food Program.
(b) Equalizing  the reimbursement rate for eligible meals and snacks served in family
child care homes regardless of tier  classification under the federal Child and Adult Care Food
Program.
SECTION 2.
(1) The Child and Adult Care Food Program Supplemental Fund is estab-
lished in the State Treasury, separate and distinct from the General Fund.
(2) The Child and Adult Care Food Program Supplemental Fund shall consist of:
(a) Moneys appropriated or otherwise transferred to the fund by the Legislative  Assem-
bly.
(b) Amounts donated to the fund; and
(c) Other amounts deposited into the fund from any source.
(3) The Department of Education, on behalf of  the State of Oregon, may solicit and ac-
cept gifts,  grants and donations and other moneys from public and private sources for the
Child and Adult Care Food Program Supplemental  Fund. Moneys received as provided in this
subsection shall be deposited into  the Child and Adult Care Food Program Supplemental
Fund.
(4) Moneys in the Child and Adult Care Food  Program Supplemental Fund are contin-
uously appropriated to the Department of  Education for the purposes of section 1 of this 2025
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1898
HB 3201
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
Act.
SECTION 3.
In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there is appropri-
ated to the Higher Education Coordinating Commission, for the biennium beginning  July 1,
2025, out of the General Fund, the amount of  $250,000, for distribution to the Oregon State
University Extension Service  for the purpose of creating culturally-specific menus for food
based on nutritional guidelines for the  Child and Adult Care Food Program and created in
collaboration with the Department of Education and local communities where the food  will
be served.
SECTION 4. This 2025 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist,  and this 2025 Act takes effect
July 1, 2025.
[2]