1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2023 Regular Session
House Bill 3254
Sponsored by Representative BYNUM (at the request of Oregon Business Council)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Requires Higher Education Coordinating Commission to establish statewide semiconductor in-
dustry consortium  for purpose of building robust, strategic partnerships between semiconductor in-
dustry, institutions of education, workforce  organizations and community-based organizations.
Requires consortium to develop comprehensive educational curriculum framework to  provide stu-
dents with skills needed for employment in semiconductor industry.
Requires commission to appoint panel led by representatives of semiconductor industry to inform
commission  on  what programs have been established at institutions of education to implement cur-
riculum framework. Requires commission to use information when  allocating moneys to promote
semiconductor education.
Requires commission and industry panel to develop method for  providing financial rewards to
institutions of education that produce graduates  with academic degrees that lead to employment in
semiconductor industry.
Appropriates moneys to  commission for purpose of establishing education curriculum framework,
industry consortium and new academic programs.
Declares emergency, effective July 1, 2023.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to semiconductors; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Higher Education Coordinating Commission shall establish a state-
wide semiconductor industry consortium for the purpose of building robust, strategic  part-
nerships between the  semiconductor industry, institutions of education, workforce
organizations and community-based organizations.
(2) The consortium established under subsection (1) of this section shall:
(a) Identify skills needed for employment in the semiconductor industry; and
(b) Develop a comprehensive educational curriculum  framework to provide the skills
identified in paragraph (a) of this subsection.
(3) The commission shall appoint a panel, led by  representatives from the semiconductor
industry, to inform  the commission on what programs have been established at institutions
of education in  this state to implement the curriculum framework developed under this
section. The commission shall use  the information provided by the panel when allocating
moneys to institutions of education to promote semiconductor education.
(4) The commission, in consultation with the industry panel established in subsection (3)
of this section, shall  develop a method for providing financial rewards to institutions of ed-
ucation that  produce graduates with academic degrees that lead to employment in the
semiconductor industry.
(5) Every two years, the consortium shall update the comprehensive educational  curric-
ulum framework developed under this section.
(6) The commission  shall consider recommendations for future funding made by the
consortium and industry panel when making  the commission’s biennial budget recommen-
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1234
HB 3254
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
dations.
SECTION 2.
The consortium  established under section 1 of this 2023 Act shall develop its
first comprehensive educational curriculum framework no later than January 2, 2024.
SECTION 3. In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there  is appropri-
ated to the  Higher Education Coordinating Commission, for the biennium beginning July 1,
2023, out of the General Fund, the  amount of $_________, for the purpose of establishing the
consortium described in section 1 of this 2023 Act.
SECTION 4. In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there is appropri-
ated to the  Higher Education Coordinating Commission, for distribution to institutions of
education, for the biennium beginning July 1, 2023, out of the General Fund, the  amount of
$_________. Moneys distributed under this  section must be directly distributed to public in-
stitutions of education  for the purpose of establishing new academic programs pursuant to
the comprehensive educational framework developed pursuant to section 1 of this 2023 Act.
SECTION 5. This 2023 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist,  and this 2023 Act takes effect
July 1, 2023.
[2]