1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Joint Resolution 19
Sponsored by Senator BONHAM (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Resolution says that more than half of the Senate has to ok a pardon  or commu-
tation. (Flesch Readability Score: 65.1).
Proposes  an  amendment to the Oregon Constitution to require approval by a majority of the
Senate of any pardon or commutation.
Refers the proposed amendment to the people for their approval or rejection at the next regular
general election.
JOINT RESOLUTION
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
PARAGRAPH 1.
 Section 14, Article V of the Constitution of the State of Oregon,  is amended
to read:
Sec. 14. (1)(a) [ He] The Governor  shall have power to grant  reprieves, commutations, and
pardons, after conviction,  for all [ offences] offenses except treason, subject to  subsection (3) of this
section and  such regulations as may be provided by law. [ Upon conviction for treason he ] The
Governor shall have power to suspend the execution of  the sentence for a conviction for treason
until the case shall be reported  to the Legislative Assembly, at its next meeting, when the Legisla-
tive Assembly shall either grant  a pardon, commute the sentence, direct the execution of the sen-
tence, or grant a [ farther] further  reprieve.[ -]
(b) [ He] The Governor shall have power to remit fines, and forfeitures, under such regulations
as may be prescribed by law[ ; and ].
(2) The Governor  shall  report to the Legislative Assembly at its next meeting each case of
reprieve, commutation, or pardon granted, and the reasons for granting the same; and also  the
names of all persons in whose favor remission of  fines, and forfeitures shall have been made, and the
several amounts remitted .
(3) A  commutation or pardon does not take effect unless, after the report to the Legis-
lative Assembly  described in subsection (2) of this section, the commutation or pardon is
approved by a majority vote of the Senate.
PARAGRAPH 2. The amendment proposed by this resolution shall be submitted to  the
people for their approval or rejection  at the next regular general election held throughout
this state.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1822