81st OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2021 Regular Session
Enrolled
House Bill 2949
Sponsored by Representatives BYNUM, ALONSO LEON, SCHOUTEN;  Representatives DEXTER,
FAHEY, GRAYBER, MARSH, NERON, NOSSE, PHAM, REARDON, REYNOLDS,  RUIZ,
SANCHEZ, SOLLMAN, VALDERRAMA, WILLIAMS, Senators FREDERICK,  GELSER,
LIEBER, PATTERSON (at  the request of Dr. Anjabeen Ashraf, Dr. Keleigh Blount, Dr.
Nathaniel Brown, Dr. Tanya Johnson, OCBA, OCHA, OCFW, OCAPIA) (Presession filed.)
CHAPTER .................................................
AN ACT
Relating to mental health;  creating new provisions; amending ORS 675.375, 675.705, 675.720, 675.745,
675.785 and 675.825; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1. The Behavioral Health Incentive Subaccount is created in the Health  Care
Provider Incentive Fund established in ORS 676.450. The Behavioral Health Incentive  Subac-
count consists of moneys appropriated to the subaccount by the Legislative Assembly  and
gifts, grants and donations from public  or private sources. Moneys in the subaccount are
continuously appropriated to the Oregon  Health Authority to carry out section 2 of this 2021
Act.
SECTION 2. (1) The  Oregon Health Authority shall provide incentives to increase the
recruitment and retention of providers in  the behavioral health care workforce with associ-
ate, bachelor’s, master’s, or  doctoral degrees or other credentials who are people of color,
tribal members or residents of rural  areas in this state and who can provide culturally re-
sponsive behavioral health services to:
(a) Tribal members;
(b) People of color;
(c) Lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender youth;
(d) Veterans;
(e) Persons with disabilities;
(f) Individuals with intellectual and developmental disabilities;
(g) Individuals with limited English proficiency;
(h) Individuals working in correctional facilities; and
(i) Other underserved communities.
(2) The authority shall increase access to services  for rural and underserved communi-
ties by:
(a) Expanding funding to provide incentives to culturally  specific peers, traditional health
workers, unlicensed, licensed or certified providers of behavioral health care and  licensed
prescribers.
Enrolled House Bill 2949 (HB 2949-B) Page 1
(b) Developing programs and providing incentives to increase the  number of individuals
training for and entering the field  of behavioral health and to improve the retention of be-
havioral health care providers in this state through:
(A) Scholarships for undergraduate and graduate  students going into the behavioral
health field;
(B) Loan forgiveness and repayment incentives for  qualified behavioral health care pro-
viders;
(C) Housing assistance;
(D) Sign-on bonuses;
(E) Part-time and flex time opportunities;
(F) Retention bonuses;
(G) Professional development;
(H) Tax subsidies;
(I) Child care subsidies;
(J) Subsidized dual certification with a specific  focus on rural and vulnerable populations
and pay equity;
(K) Tuition assistance;
(L) Bonuses and stipends for supervisors of interns;
(M) Licensing examination preparation;
(N) Stipends for students enrolled in graduate behavioral health programs; or
(O) Other programs and incentives.
(3) The authority shall develop  a program to award qualified mental health care providers
student loan forgiveness or student loan repayment  subsidies if the qualified mental health
care provider commits to two consecutive years of full-time practice in:
(a) A publicly funded or public mental health facility;
(b) A nonprofit mental health facility that contracts with a county to  provide mental
health services;
(c) A mental health professional shortage area, as defined by the authority by rule; or
(d) Other  programs or facilities that serve the communities described in subsection (1)
of this section.
(4) The subsidy described in  subsection (3) of this section applies to a qualified mental
health care provider’s student loans incurred for the  educational program that led to the
qualified mental health care provider’s licensure or certification as:
(a) A licensed psychologist, as defined in ORS 675.010;
(b) A clinical social worker licensed under ORS 675.530;
(c) A master’s social worker licensed under ORS 675.533;
(d) A clinical social work associate certified under ORS 675.537;
(e) A licensed marriage and family therapist, as defined in ORS 675.705;
(f) A licensed professional counselor, as defined in ORS 675.705; or
(g) Another type of behavioral health care provider as prescribed by the authority by
rule.
(5) The authority may adopt rules to carry out this section.
SECTION 3.
Notwithstanding any  other law limiting expenditures, the amount of
$60,000,000 is established for the biennium beginning July 1, 2021, as the maximum limit for
payment of  expenses from fees, moneys or other revenues, including Miscellaneous Receipts,
but excluding lottery funds and federal funds, collected or received by the  Oregon Health
Authority, for the expenditure of American Rescue Plan Act State  Fiscal Recovery Funds
received by  the Oregon Department of Administrative Services and transferred to the au-
thority for deposit into  the Behavioral Health Incentive Subaccount created in section 1 of
this 2021 Act, to carry out section 2 of this 2021 Act.
SECTION 4. (1) The Oregon Health Authority shall establish a program to provide  grants
to licensed psychologists, licensed marriage and family therapists, licensed professional
Enrolled House Bill 2949 (HB 2949-B) Page 2
counselors and licensed clinical social workers to provide supervised clinical experience  to
associates or other individuals who  have the necessary education but need supervised clinical
experience to obtain a license to practice:
(a) Psychology;
(b) Marriage and family therapy, as defined in ORS 675.705;
(c) Professional counseling, as defined in ORS 675.705;
(d) Clinical social work, as defined in ORS 675.510; or
(e) Another behavioral health care discipline as prescribed by the authority by rule.
(2) The authority shall adopt rules to carry out the provisions of this section.
SECTION 5.
Notwithstanding any  other law limiting expenditures, the amount of
$20,000,000 is established for the biennium beginning July 1, 2021, as the maximum limit for
payment of  expenses from fees, moneys or other revenues, including Miscellaneous Receipts,
but excluding lottery funds and federal funds, collected or received by the  Oregon Health
Authority, for the expenditure of American Rescue Plan Act State  Fiscal Recovery Funds
received by  the Oregon Department of Administrative Services and transferred to the au-
thority, to be expended to carry out section 4 of this 2021 Act and distributed as follows:
(1) $7,000,000 to county mental health programs;
(2) $7,000,000 to private practitioners; and
(3) $6,000,000 for the authority  to expend as necessary to carry out the purposes of sec-
tion 4 of this 2021 Act.
SECTION 6.
A public or private entity that employs mental health care  providers who
supervise associates, interns or other individuals who  must have supervised clinical experi-
ence as a condition of licensure as  a mental health care provider shall pay all costs incurred
by the  supervisor in providing supervision and the costs of the individual receiving super-
vision if the supervisor is:
(1) A licensed psychologist, as defined in ORS 675.010;
(2) A clinical social worker licensed under ORS 675.530;
(3) A master’s social worker licensed under ORS 675.533;
(4) A licensed marriage and family therapist, as defined in ORS 675.705; or
(5) A licensed professional counselor, as defined in ORS 675.705.
SECTION 7.
(1) The Oregon Health Authority shall coordinate with systems of higher
education and with the Higher Education  Coordinating Commission in considering workforce
investments under sections 2 and 4 of this 2021 Act.
(2) The authority shall ensure that investments made  in accordance with sections 2 and
4 of this 2021 Act are aligned and coordinated with other  state investments that are intended
to improve behavioral health outcomes for residents of this state, including but not  limited
to investments made from moneys in the Drug Treatment and Recovery  Services Fund es-
tablished in section 5, chapter 2, Oregon Laws 2021 (Ballot Measure 110 (2020)).
SECTION 8.  ORS 675.705 is amended to read:
675.705. As used in ORS 675.715 to 675.835:
(1) “Assessment” means assessment under standards developed by a national  body responsible
for accrediting graduate training programs in clinical counseling for professional counselors or  in
marriage and family therapy for marriage and family therapists.
(2) “Clinical experience” means the  professional practice of applying psychotherapeutic princi-
ples and methods to provide assessment, diagnosis and treatment of mental disorders.
(3) “Licensed marriage and family therapist” means  a person [ to whom  a license has been
issued] licensed under ORS 675.715.
(4) “Licensed  professional counselor” means a person [ issued a license ] licensed  under ORS
675.715.
(5) “Licensee” means a licensed professional counselor or a licensed marriage and family ther-
apist.
Enrolled House Bill 2949 (HB 2949-B) Page 3
(6)(a) “Marriage and family therapy” means the assessment, diagnosis or  treatment of mental,
emotional or behavioral  disorders involving the application of family systems or other
psychotherapeutic principles and methods in the delivery of services to individuals, couples,  chil-
dren, families, groups or organizations.
(b) “Marriage and family therapy” may include, but is not limited to:
(A) Application of counseling techniques for  the purpose of resolving intrapersonal or interper-
sonal conflict or changing perceptions, attitudes,  behaviors or interactional processes in the area
of human relationships and family life;
(B) Provision of services to address wellness or optimal functioning  in human relationships or
family life;
(C) Research activities,  including reporting, designing or conducting research in marriage and
family therapy with human subjects;
(D) Referral activities, including the referral  to other specialists when indicated to provide
ethical treatment;
(E) Consulting activities that apply marriage and family therapy procedures  to provide assist-
ance to organizations that support or enrich marriage and family life; and
(F) Record keeping activities, including documentation of counseling treatment,  therapeutic
services or clinical supervision.
(7)(a) “Professional counseling” means  the assessment, diagnosis or treatment of mental, emo-
tional or behavioral disorders involving the application of  mental health counseling or other
psychotherapeutic principles and methods in the delivery of services to individuals, couples,  chil-
dren, families, groups or organizations.
(b) “Professional counseling” may include, but is not limited to:
(A) Application of  intervention methods based on cognitive, affective, behavioral, systemic or
human development principles;
(B) Provision of counseling services to address personal growth or wellness;
(C) Definition of goals and the  planning of action reflecting interests, abilities, aptitudes or
needs as they relate to problems, disabilities  or concerns in personal, social, educational, rehabili-
tation or career adjustments;
(D) Research activities, including reporting,  designing or conducting research in counseling with
human subjects;
(E) Referral activities, including the referral to other specialists when indicated to provide eth-
ical treatment;
(F) Consulting activities that apply counseling procedures  and interpersonal skills to provide
assistance in solving problems relating to an individual, group or organization; and
(G) Record keeping activities, including  documentation of counseling treatment, therapeutic
services or clinical supervision.
(8) “Registered [ intern] associate ” means an applicant for licensure who is registered to  obtain
post-degree supervised clinical experience toward licensure according  to an approved plan pursuant
to ORS 675.720.
SECTION 9.
 ORS 675.720 is amended to read:
675.720. (1) If an applicant for a license under ORS 675.715 possesses the graduate  degree re-
quired by ORS 675.715 but has not submitted documentation satisfactory to the Oregon Board  of
Licensed Professional Counselors and Therapists that the applicant has the  required supervised
clinical experience, the applicant must register  [ an internship ] a plan to obtain acceptable post-
degree supervised clinical experience to qualify for a license as a professional counselor or as a
marriage and family therapist.
(2) To register as a professional counselor [ intern] associate  or  as a marriage and family ther-
apist [ intern] associate under this section, the applicant shall submit in the form and  manner de-
termined by the board:
(a) A request for registration; and
(b) A plan to obtain or complete the supervised clinical experience required for licensure.
Enrolled House Bill 2949 (HB 2949-B) Page 4
(3) The board shall register the applicant as an [ intern] associate  upon receipt and approval  of
the completed request and plan required in subsection (2) of this section.
(4)(a) A registered [ intern] associate must  renew the certificate of registration annually on or
before the first day of the month in which the board approved the initial registration. To  renew a
certificate of registration, a registered [ intern] associate  shall:
(A) Submit a renewal application in  the form and manner established by the board accompanied
by a renewal fee pursuant to ORS 675.785; and
(B) Document fulfillment of all other requirements established by the board by rule.
(b) Failure to renew a registration within 30 days of the  annual renewal date terminates the
registration and the application for licensure.
(5) Registered [ interns] associates are subject to all ethical standards adopted by the board.
SECTION 10.
 ORS 675.745 is amended to read:
675.745. (1)  The Oregon Board of Licensed Professional Counselors and Therapists may deny,
suspend, revoke or refuse to issue or to renew any  license issued under ORS 675.715 to 675.835 upon
proof that the applicant for licensure or the licensee:
(a) Has been convicted of violating ORS 675.825 or of a crime in this or any other state or ter-
ritory  or  against the federal government that brings into question the competence of the licensee
in the role of a counselor or a therapist;
(b) Is unable to perform the practice of professional counseling or  marriage and family therapy
by reason of physical illness;
(c) Has an impairment as defined in ORS 676.303;
(d) Has been grossly negligent in  the practice of professional counseling or marriage and family
therapy;
(e) Has violated any provision of ORS 675.715 to 675.835 or 675.850;
(f) Has violated any rule of the board pertaining to the licensure of professional counselors or
licensed marriage and family therapists;
(g) Has failed to file a professional disclosure statement or has filed a  false, incomplete or mis-
leading professional disclosure statement;
(h) Has practiced outside the  scope of activities, including administering, constructing or inter-
preting tests or diagnosing or treating mental disorders,  for which the licensee has individual
training and qualification;
(i) Has been disciplined by a state mental health  licensing board or program in this or any other
state for violation of competency or conduct standards; or
(j) Notwithstanding ORS 670.280, has been convicted of a sex crime  as defined in ORS 163A.005
or has been convicted  in another state or jurisdiction of a crime that is substantially equivalent to
a sex crime as defined in ORS 163A.005.
(2)(a) The board may reprimand  or impose probation on a licensee or a registered [ intern] as-
sociate upon proof of any of the grounds for discipline provided in subsection (1) of this section.
(b) If the board elects to place a licensee or a registered [ intern] associate on probation, the
board may impose:
(A) Restrictions on the scope of practice of the licensee or [ intern] associate;
(B) Requirements for specific training;
(C) Supervision of the practice of the licensee or [ intern] associate ; or
(D) Other conditions the board finds necessary for the protection of the public.
(3) The board may initiate injunctive proceedings in any circuit court against persons violating
any provision of ORS 675.715 to 675.835 or any rules adopted by the board.
(4) Pursuant to ORS 183.745,  the board may impose a civil penalty of not more than $2,500 for
each ground for discipline listed in subsection (1) of this section found by the board.
(5) Pursuant to ORS 183.745, the board may impose a civil penalty of not  more than $2,500 for
each violation of or failure to observe any limitation or condition imposed by the board on  the
licensee’s or registered [ intern’s] associate’s practice under subsection (2) of this section.
Enrolled House Bill 2949 (HB 2949-B) Page 5
(6) Information that the board  obtains as part of an investigation into licensee or applicant
conduct or as part of a contested case proceeding, consent order or stipulated  agreement involving
licensee or applicant conduct is confidential as provided under ORS 676.175.
(7) In addition to the actions authorized by subsections (1) and (2) of this  section, the board may
take such disciplinary action as the board in its discretion finds proper, including but  not limited
to the assessment of the costs of the disciplinary process.
SECTION 11.  ORS 675.785 is amended to read:
675.785. The Oregon  Board of Licensed Professional Counselors and Therapists has the following
powers and duties:
(1) In accordance with the applicable provisions of ORS chapter 183, the board shall  adopt rules
necessary for the administration of the laws the board is charged with administering.
(2) Subject to applicable provisions of the State Personnel Relations Law, the board  may ap-
point, prescribe the duties and fix the compensation of employees  of the board necessary to carry
out the duties of the board.
(3) The board may impose nonrefundable fees in an amount set by rule for the following:
(a) License application.
(b) First issuance of a license.
(c) Renewal of a license.
(d) Late filing of a license renewal.
(e) Renewal of registration as an [ intern] associate.
(f) Examinations. Examination fees may not exceed the costs incurred in administering  the par-
ticular examination. Fees established under this subsection are subject to prior  approval of the
Oregon Department of Administrative Services and  a report to the Emergency Board prior to
adopting the fees and  must be within the budget authorized by the Legislative Assembly as that
budget may be modified by the Emergency Board.
(4) The board shall:
(a) Maintain a  register of all current licensed professional counselors and marriage and family
therapists.
(b) Annually  publish a directory listing all current licensed professional counselors and marriage
and family  therapists. The directory must be available to the public, and the board may collect a
publication fee for the directory.
(5) The board shall:
(a) Investigate alleged violations of the provisions of ORS 675.715 to 675.835 or rules  adopted
under authority of the board.
(b) Establish procedures to review the complaints of clients  of licensees of the board. Upon re-
ceipt of a complaint under ORS 675.715 to  675.835 against a licensed or unlicensed person, the board
shall conduct an investigation as described under ORS 676.165.
(6) The board shall report  to the Legislative Assembly concerning the activities of the board
during the preceding biennium.
(7) The board shall form standards committees to establish, examine and pass on the qualifica-
tions of applicants to practice professional counseling or marriage and family therapy in  this state,
including standards and requirements for continuing education and supervision,  as appropriate. The
standards committee for professional counselors  shall be made up of the professional counselors on
the board, the faculty member and the public member. The standards committee for marriage and
family therapists shall be made up of the marriage and family members of the board,  the faculty
member and the public member.
(8) The board shall grant licenses to applicants  who qualify to practice professional counseling
or marriage and family therapy in this state upon compliance with  ORS 675.715 to 675.835 and the
rules of the board.
(9) The board may administer oaths, take depositions, defray legal expenses and  issue subpoenas
to compel the attendance of witnesses and the production of documents or written information nec-
essary to carry out ORS 675.715 to 675.835.
Enrolled House Bill 2949 (HB 2949-B) Page 6
(10) The board may adopt a seal to be affixed to all licenses.
(11) The board shall  adopt a code of ethics for licensees. The board may use the ethical codes
of professional counseling and  marriage and family therapy associations as models for the code es-
tablished by the board.
(12) The board may set academic  and training standards necessary under ORS 675.715 to
675.835, including, but  not limited to, the adoption of rules to establish semester hour equivalents
for qualification for licensing where quarter hours are required under ORS 675.715 to 675.835.
(13) The board shall require the applicant for a professional  counselor license or a marriage and
family therapy license to receive a passing score on  an examination of competency in counseling
or marriage and family therapy. The examination may be the  examination given nationally to certify
counselors, or in the case of  marriage and family therapy, the examination approved by the Asso-
ciation of Marital and Family Therapy Regulatory Boards.
(14) For the purpose  of requesting a state or nationwide criminal records check under ORS
181A.195, the board may require the fingerprints of a person who is:
(a) Applying for a license that is issued by the board;
(b) Applying for renewal of a license that is issued by the board; or
(c) Under investigation by the board.
(15) The board shall prescribe, in consultation with the Oregon Board  of Psychology, the duties
of the Director of the Mental Health Regulatory Agency.
SECTION 12.
 ORS 675.825 is amended to read:
675.825. (1) A person may not:
(a) Attempt to obtain or  obtain a license or license renewal by bribery or fraudulent represen-
tation.
(b) Engage in or purport to the public to be  engaged in the practice of professional counseling
under the title “licensed professional counselor” unless the person is a licensee.
(c) Engage in or purport to the public to be engaged in the practice of  marriage and family
therapy under the title of “licensed marriage and family therapist” unless the person is a licensee.
(d) Engage in the practice of professional counseling or marriage and family therapy unless:
(A) The  person is a licensee, registered [ intern] associate or graduate student pursuing a grad-
uate degree in counseling or marriage and family therapy; or
(B) The person is exempted from the licensing requirements of  ORS 675.715 to 675.835 by sub-
section (3) of this section.
(e) Provide counseling  or therapy services of a psychotherapeutic nature if the person’s license
to practice as a professional counselor or as a marriage and family therapist has been revoked  by
the Oregon  Board of Licensed Professional Counselors and Therapists because the person engaged
in sexual activity with a client.
(2) A licensed psychologist whose license, or a regulated social worker whose authorization to
practice regulated social work, was issued prior to October 1, 1991, may use the title “marriage  and
family therapist.”
(3) The licensing requirements of ORS 675.715 to 675.835 do not apply to a person who is:
(a) Licensed, certified, registered or similarly regulated under the laws of this state and who is
performing duties within the authorized scope of practice of the license, certification, registration
or regulation.
(b) A recognized member of the clergy, provided that the person is acting in  the person’s
ministerial capacity.
(c) Employed by a local, state  or federal agency, a public university listed in ORS 352.002 or
any agency licensed or certified by  the state to provide mental health or health services, if the
person’s activities  constituting professional counseling or marriage and family therapy are per-
formed within the scope of the person’s employment.
(d) Authorized to provide addiction treatment services under  rules of the Department of Human
Services.
Enrolled House Bill 2949 (HB 2949-B) Page 7
(4) Nothing in ORS 675.715 to 675.835 limits or prevents the practice of  a person’s profession
or restricts a person from providing counseling services  or services related to marriage and family
if the person:
(a) Does not meet the requirements of ORS 675.715 (1)(b); or
(b) Does not practice:
(A) Marriage and family therapy as defined in ORS 675.705 (6)(a); or
(B) Professional counseling as defined in ORS 675.705 (7)(a).
(5) Each violation of this section is a separate violation.
(6) The board may levy a civil penalty not to exceed $2,500 for each separate violation of this
section.
SECTION 13.
 ORS 675.375 is amended to read:
675.375. (1) To obtain certification as a clinical sexual offense  therapist, associate sexual offense
therapist, secondary clinical  sexual offense therapist or sexual offense therapist intern, an applicant
must complete an application developed and prescribed by the Sexual  Offense Treatment Board and
file a professional disclosure statement with the  Health Licensing Office. The documents must be
accompanied by the applicable fees established under ORS 676.576.
(2) Subject  to the provisions of ORS 676.612, the office may issue four types of certification to
qualified applicants under this section:
(a) Clinical sexual offense therapist;
(b) Associate sexual offense therapist;
(c) Secondary clinical sexual offense therapist; and
(d) Sexual offense therapist intern.
(3) To qualify as a certified clinical sexual offense therapist, the applicant must:
(a) Be in compliance with applicable provisions and rules adopted by the office;
(b) Have at least a master’s degree in the behavioral sciences;
(c) Have  an active Oregon mental health professional license or equivalent license as deter-
mined by the office;
(d) Within not more than six years prior to application, have had a minimum of 2,000  hours of
direct clinical contact with persons described in ORS 675.368, including:
(A) 1,000 hours of direct treatment services; and
(B) 500 hours of evaluations; and
(e) Have a minimum  of 60 hours of formal training applicable to sexual abuse specific treatment
and evaluation, achieved within the six years prior to application.
(4) To qualify as a certified associate sexual offense therapist, the applicant must:
(a) Be in compliance with applicable provisions and rules adopted by the office;
(b) Have at least a bachelor’s degree in the behavioral sciences;
(c) Have had a minimum of 1,000  hours of direct clinical contact with persons described in ORS
675.368;
(d) Have a  minimum of 30 hours of formal training applicable to sexual abuse specific treatment
and evaluation, achieved within the three years prior to application; and
(e) Be under the direct supervision of a certified clinical sexual offense therapist.
(5) To qualify as a certified secondary clinical sexual offense therapist, the applicant must:
(a) Be in compliance with applicable provisions and rules adopted by the office;
(b) Have at least a master’s degree in the behavioral sciences;
(c) Have  an active Oregon mental health professional license or equivalent license as deter-
mined by the office or be a registered intern or associate  for  a mental health professional licensed
in Oregon;
(d) Have a  minimum of 15 hours of formal training applicable to sexual abuse specific treatment
and evaluation, achieved within the three years prior to application;
(e) Be under the direct supervision of a certified clinical sexual offense therapist; and
Enrolled House Bill 2949 (HB 2949-B) Page 8
(f) Provide sexual abuse specific treatment services to not more than nine clients in a calendar
month, unless the applicant is accruing hours to qualify for application  as a certified associate
sexual offense therapist.
(6) To qualify as a certified sexual offense therapist intern, the applicant must:
(a) Be in compliance with applicable provisions and rules adopted by the office;
(b) Have at least a bachelor’s degree in the behavioral sciences; and
(c) Be under the direct supervision of a certified clinical sexual offense therapist.
(7)(a) A  certified associate sexual offense therapist and a certified sexual offense therapist intern
must obtain:
(A) A minimum of two hours of direct supervision, at least one hour  of which must be individual
supervision,  in  a month if the certified associate sexual offense therapist or certified sexual offense
therapist intern has 45 or fewer hours in the month of  direct clinical contact with a person de-
scribed in ORS 675.368.
(B) A minimum of three hours of direct supervision, at least 90  minutes of which must be indi-
vidual supervision,  in a month if the certified associate sexual offense therapist or certified sexual
offense therapist intern has more than 45  hours in the month of direct clinical contact with a person
described in ORS 675.368.
(b) A certified secondary clinical sexual offense therapist must obtain at least two  hours of di-
rect  supervision  for every 10 hours of direct clinical contact with a person described in ORS 675.368.
SECTION 14.
This 2021 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation  of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist, and  this 2021 Act takes effect
on July 1, 2021.
Passed by House June 24, 2021
..................................................................................
Timothy G. Sekerak, Chief Clerk of House
..................................................................................
Tina Kotek, Speaker of House
Passed by Senate June 26, 2021
..................................................................................
Peter Courtney, President of Senate
Received by Governor:
........................M.,........................................................., 2021
Approved:
........................M.,........................................................., 2021
..................................................................................
Kate Brown, Governor
Filed in Office of Secretary of State:
........................M.,........................................................., 2021
..................................................................................
Shemia Fagan, Secretary of State
Enrolled House Bill 2949 (HB 2949-B) Page 9