1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 3247
Sponsored by Representative DIEHL, Senator SMITH DB
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Makes a power company have  a new power source that meets certain standards before
the company can close a power plant. (Flesch Readability Score: 60.6).
Requires an electric company to first acquire a replacement resource of reliable or dispatchable
electricity prior to retiring an electric power generating  facility that provides reliable or
dispatchable electricity.
Requires the Public  Utility Commission to seek a waiver to, or if unable to obtain a waiver, seek
an injunction against,  any federal regulations or requirements that impose increasing costs to the
maintenance or operation of an electric power  generating facility such that an electric company
seeks to retire the electric power generating facility.
Takes effect on the 91st day following adjournment sine die.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to the supply of electricity in this state; and prescribing an effective date.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
Section 2 of this 2025 Act is added to and made a part of ORS chapter 757.
SECTION 2. (1) As used in this section:
(a) “Dispatchable electricity” means electricity that is readily available  and can be dis-
patched upon request in amounts adjusted to match power demand,  except for routine
maintenance or repair.
(b) “Reliable electricity” means electricity that is generated from a resource that has  a
performance standard of 80 percent or greater, except for routine maintenance or repair, and
is not subject to intermittent availability.
(2) The Public Utility Commission may not authorize or approve  a plan by an electric
company to retire an electric power generating facility  that provides reliable or dispatchable
electricity unless the electric company has acquired a presently available  generating re-
source that can provide reliable or dispatchable electricity in an amount that is  equal to or
greater than the amount  of reliable or dispatchable electricity that is provided by the electric
power generating facility that the electric company proposes to retire.
(3) If  an electric company proposes to retire an electric power generating facility that
provides reliable or  dispatchable electricity in response to federal regulations or require-
ments that impose increasing  costs to the maintenance or operation of the electric power
generating facility, the commission, in coordination with the State Department of  Energy,
shall seek a waiver to the federal regulations or requirements until such time that the
electric company  acquires a generating resource that can provide reliable or dispatchable
electricity in an amount that is equal to or  greater than the amount of reliable or
dispatchable electricity that is provided  by the electric power generating facility that the
electric company proposes to retire.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 4083
HB 3247
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
(4) If the commission or department is unable to obtain a waiver under subsection (3)
of this section, the commission shall bring a civil action and seek an injunction or  other
appropriate relief to restrain the  implementation of the federal regulations or requirements
until such time  that the electric company acquires a generating resource that can provide
reliable or dispatchable electricity in an amount that is  equal to or greater than the amount
of reliable or dispatchable electricity that is provided by the electric power generating facility
that the electric company proposes to retire.
SECTION 3.
This 2025 Act takes effect on the 91st day after the date on  which the 2025
regular session of the Eighty-third Legislative Assembly adjourns sine die.
[2]