1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2024 Regular Session
Senate Bill 1572
Sponsored by  Senators WOODS, MANNING JR, Representatives MANNIX, ANDERSEN, EVANS, NERON; Senators
CAMPOS, DEMBROW, FREDERICK, GORSEK, JAMA,  MEEK, PATTERSON, THATCHER, Representatives
BOWMAN, CHAICHI, CRAMER, DEXTER, GAMBA, LEWIS, NELSON, NGUYEN H, NOSSE,  PHAM H,
PHAM K, REYNOLDS, WALTERS (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act requires ODOT to study extending the WES commuter rail line to Salem. The
Act creates an advisory committee to aid ODOT in its study. Requires ODOT  to consult with the
advisory committee as part of the process of conducting the study. ODOT must submit  a report no
later than December 1, 2024. Gives money to ODOT to pay for the costs of the study. The Act  takes
effect as soon as it is passed. (Flesch Readability Score: 60.4).
Requires the Department of Transportation, after consulting with the Westside Express Advisory
Committee, to study extending the Westside Express Service  commuter line to Salem. Directs the
department to submit findings to the interim committees of the Legislative Assembly related  to
transportation not later than December 1, 2024.
Appropriates moneys from the General  Fund to the Department of Transportation for the study.
Declares an emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to a study on extending the  Westside Express Service commuter line to Salem; and de-
claring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Department of Transportation, after consulting with  the Westside
Express Advisory Committee described in  this section, shall study issues related to extending
the Westside Express Service commuter line to Salem,  including increasing the frequency
and hours of service. The study must include, but is not limited to, the following:
(a) A review of the specific operational and locational issues for extending and  operating
the Westside  Express Service commuter line on the old Oregon Electric Railway using the
existing or new:
(A) Westside Express Service tracks;
(B) Portland and Western Railroad tracks; and
(C) BNSF Railway Company tracks.
(b) An examination of potential operators  of the existing and new commuter rail service.
(c) Consulting cities  that may be potentially served by the service extension, including
Wilsonville, Donald, Aurora, Hubbard,  Woodburn, Keizer and Salem, to better understand
local access and other related issues.
(d) Consulting relevant  transit agencies, including but not limited to South Metro Area
Regional Transit, Woodburn Transit Service, Yamhill  County Transit and Salem Area Mass
Transit District, that would  potentially provide bus service from rail stops to Wilsonville,
Donald, Aurora, Hubbard, Woodburn, Keizer or Salem and  exploring options for connecting
rail stops with transit service.
(2) To aid the department in conducting the study, the  department shall appoint the
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 135
SB 1572
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
Westside Express Advisory Committee, consisting of 18 members as follows:
(a) One member who represents the Aurora city council;
(b) One member who represents the Donald city council;
(c) One member who represents the Hubbard city council;
(d) One member who represents the Keizer city council;
(e) One member who represents the Salem city council;
(f) One member who represents the Wilsonville city council;
(g) One member who represents the Woodburn city council;
(h) One member who represents the Mid-Willamette Valley Council of Governments;
(i) One member who represents the Tri-County Metropolitan Transportation District of
Oregon;
(j) One member  who represents the Metro Council of the Portland area metropolitan
service district;
(k) One member who represents the Salem Area Mass Transit District;
(L) One member who represents South Metro Area Regional Transit;
(m) One member who represents Woodburn Transit Service;
(n) One member who represents Yamhill County Transit;
(o) One member who represents Portland and Western Railroad;
(p) One member who represents BNSF Railway Company;
(q) One member who represents a statewide rail passenger advocacy association; and
(r) One member who represents a statewide land use conservation advocacy association.
(3) The department shall collaborate, through an intergovernmental  agreement, with the
Mid-Willamette Valley Council of Governments to coordinate,  convene and record the
meetings of the advisory committee.
(4) The advisory  committee shall provide recommendations to the department regarding
all aspects of the study, including but not limited to land use and transportation issues.
(5) The advisory  committee shall elect one of its members to serve as chairperson and
one member to serve as vice chairperson.
(6) If there is a vacancy for any cause, the department shall make an appointment  to
become immediately effective.
(7) A majority of the members of the  advisory committee constitutes a quorum for the
transaction of business.
(8) The department shall identify opportunities to apply  for federal funding to supplement
state funds for the study and any eligible subsequent corridor identification and development
efforts.
(9) The department shall submit a report in the manner provided  by ORS 192.245, and
may include recommendations for legislation, to the interim  committees of the Legislative
Assembly related to transportation no later than December 1, 2024.
SECTION 2.
Section 1 of this 2024 Act is repealed on January 2, 2025.
SECTION 3. In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there is appropri-
ated to the Department of Transportation, for the biennium ending June 30, 2025, out of  the
General Fund, the amount of $500,000,  which may be expended for the purpose of carrying
out the provisions of section 1 of this 2024 Act.
SECTION 4. This 2024 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the  public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is  declared to exist, and this 2024 Act takes effect
[2]
SB 1572
1
2
on its passage.
[3]