1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 3211
Sponsored by Representative LEVY E; Senator BROADMAN (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act directs  OHA to create a directive form about certain drugs a person does not
want to be given. (Flesch Readability Score: 68.6).
Requires the Oregon Health Authority to develop and make available a nonopioid directive form.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to health directives.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) As used in this section:
(a) “Emergency medical services provider” means a  person practicing within the scope
of the person’s license to practice as an emergency medical services provider under  ORS
chapter 682.
(b) “Health care advocate” has the meaning given that term in ORS 127.765.
(c) “Health care facility” has the meaning given that term in ORS 442.015.
(d) “Health care provider” has the meaning given that term in ORS 127.505.
(e) “Health care representative” has the meaning given that term in ORS 127.505.
(f) “Hospital” has the meaning given that term in ORS 442.015.
(2) The Oregon Health Authority shall develop by rule a nonopioid directive form indi-
cating to health care providers and emergency medical services providers that,  except as
otherwise provided in subsection (4) of this section or by rule, an individual who has executed
the nonopioid directive form or who has had a nonopioid directive form executed on  the
individual’s behalf may not be administered an opioid or offered a prescription for an opioid.
The authority shall include on the  nonopioid directive form instructions on how the form
may be revoked  and any other information that the authority considers relevant. The au-
thority shall make the form electronically available to the public.
(3)(a) An individual or an individual’s health care representative or health care  advocate
may execute a nonopioid directive form on the individual’s behalf.
(b) If  a nonopioid directive form is executed by or on behalf of an individual and is pre-
sented to a health care provider, the  health care provider shall make the nonopioid directive
form a part of the individual’s medical record.
(c) A nonopioid directive form may be revoked:
(A) If the form was executed by  the individual, by the individual at any time and in any
manner by which the individual is able to communicate the individual’s intent to revoke the
form;
(B) If the form was executed by the individual’s health care representative, by  the health
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 3311
HB 3211
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
care representative at any time by  issuing the revocation in writing and providing notice of
the revocation to the individual’s health care provider; or
(C) If the form was executed by the individual’s health care  advocate, by the health care
advocate at any time by issuing the revocation  in writing and providing notice of the revo-
cation to the individual’s health care provider.
(4) A health  care provider who is authorized to prescribe controlled substances may ad-
minister or direct the  administration of an opioid to an individual who has executed a
nonopioid directive form or who has had a nonopioid directive form  executed on the
individual’s behalf if:
(a) The individual is being treated at a hospital or in a setting outside of a  hospital in the
case of an emergency and, in the health care provider’s professional  opinion, the adminis-
tration of the opioid is medically necessary to treat the individual. If an  opioid is adminis-
tered under this paragraph, the health care  provider shall ensure that the individual is
provided with information on substance use disorder treatment  and services as defined in
ORS 414.780; or
(b) The opioid is for intraoperative use.
(5) Except as otherwise provided  by law, the following are not subject to civil or criminal
liability or  professional disciplinary action for failing to administer, prescribe or dispense an
opioid, or for the inadvertent administration of an opioid, to an  individual who has executed
a nonopioid directive form or  who has had a nonopioid directive form executed on the
individual’s behalf, if the failure to act or act was done reasonably and in good faith:
(a) A health  care provider whose scope of practice includes the prescribing, administering
or dispensing of a controlled substance.
(b) A health care facility.
(c) An employee of a health care provider.
(d) An employee of a health care facility.
(e) Emergency medical services providers.
(6) Subject to subsection (7) of this section, the authority shall  adopt rules to implement
this section. The rules must include, but are not limited to, the following:
(a) Procedures to record a nonopioid directive form in a patient’s medical record.
(b) Procedures to revoke a nonopioid directive form.
(c) Procedures to  ensure that the recording, disclosure or distribution of data relating
to a nonopioid directive form or the transmission of  a nonopioid directive form complies with
state and federal confidentiality and consent laws, rules and regulations.
(d) Exemptions for administering or prescribing  an opioid to an individual who has exe-
cuted a nonopioid directive form or who has had a nonopioid directive form  executed on the
individual’s behalf if the opioid is administered or prescribed to treat the individual for  a
substance use disorder.
(e) Exemptions for administering or prescribing an opioid  to an individual who has exe-
cuted a nonopioid directive form or who has had a nonopioid directive form executed on the
individual’s behalf if the individual is a hospice patient.
(7) The rules adopted under this section must allow a health care provider or health care
facility to incorporate a nonopioid directive form into an existing patient form  or into other
documentation used by the health care provider or health care facility or agency.
[2]