1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2023 Regular Session
House Bill 3604
Sponsored by Representatives NGUYEN D, NGUYEN H; Representatives PHAM H, PHAM  K, RUIZ, TRAN,
WALTERS
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced.
Directs Oregon Department  of Administrative Services to award grant to nonprofit organization
to plan and develop community center that provides resources relevant to  Vietnamese
speakers. Appropriates moneys from General Fund to department for grant.
Declares emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to a community center  providing resources relevant to Vietnamese speakers; and declaring
an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
The Oregon Department of Administrative  Services shall issue a grant to a
nonprofit organization to plan and develop a community center that provides increased  ac-
cess to cultural enrichment, fosters the development of arts and  community in a safe and
compassionate space, provides language development opportunities and increases  access to
resources that are vital to economic and social success to speakers of  Vietnamese. Grant
funds may be used for the attainment of  a project manager and the purchase, lease and
renovation of property to house the community center.
SECTION 2. In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there is appropri-
ated to the Oregon Department of  Administrative Services, for the biennium beginning July
1, 2023, out of the General Fund, the amount of $1,000,000, which may be  expended for pur-
poses of providing a grant under section 1 of this 2023 Act.
SECTION 3. This 2023 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist,  and this 2023 Act takes effect
on its passage.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 4376