1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Concurrent Resolution 8
Sponsored by Representative EVANS
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Honors Vicki and Jerry Berger for their careers and service. (Flesch Readability  Score:
61.3).
Recognizes and honors Vicki and Jerry Berger for their leadership and service to the  people of
Oregon.
CONCURRENT RESOLUTION
Whereas during their long and  distinguished careers in public service, Vicki Berger and Dr.
Gerald “Jerry” Berger have been exceptional leaders; and
Whereas from 1988 to 1992, Vicki Berger served on the  board of Salem-Keizer Public Schools,
Oregon’s second-largest school district; and
Whereas from 2003 to 2015, Vicki Berger served as a state Representative for District  20, which
includes portions of Marion and Polk Counties; and
Whereas Vicki Berger was widely respected by her legislative colleagues for her integrity,  wis-
dom and ability to get along with everyone; and
Whereas Vicki Berger was a voice of civility and moderation in the Legislative Assembly,  and
she was renowned for  her ability to work with members of both parties to improve the lives of
Oregonians; and
Whereas Vicki Berger  served on the board of the Family YMCA of Marion and Polk Counties
and was its first female president; and
Whereas Vicki Berger was a member of the boards of the Salem Health Foundation, the Salem-
Keizer Education Foundation and the Oregon State Capitol Foundation; and
Whereas Jerry Berger is a widely  respected educational leader who served on the State Board
of Education; and
Whereas Jerry Berger spent  the majority of his career at Chemeketa Community College and
served in a variety of leadership roles, culminating in his tenure as president from  1993 to 2002; and
Whereas Jerry Berger served as interim president of Portland Community College; and
Whereas Jerry Berger was president  of the Family YMCA of Marion and Polk Counties, and
he has served on many other local boards and committees; and
Whereas Vicki and Jerry Berger shared  the 2000 First Citizen Award from the Salem Chamber
of Commerce; and
Whereas Vicki and  Jerry Berger have been married since 1969, and they have three children;
and
Whereas in a lifetime of dedicated service, Vicki and Jerry Berger have  touched the lives of
countless Oregonians and made their community a better place; now, therefore,
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 3659
HCR 8
1
2
3
That we, the members of the Eighty-third Legislative Assembly,  recognize and honor Vicki and
Jerry Berger for their leadership and service to the people of the State of Oregon.
[2]