1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Joint Resolution 14
Sponsored by Representative RESCHKE, Senators WEBER, LINTHICUM; Representatives  BOICE, DIEHL,
EDWARDS, HARBICK, LEWIS, SCHARF, SKARLATOS, WRIGHT, Senators  ANDERSON, BONHAM,
ROBINSON, SMITH DB, STARR
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The measure removes the language that would disqualify a member of the LA  for being
absent 10 or more times. The measure requires voter approval. (Flesch Readability Score: 62.1).
Proposes an amendment to the Oregon Constitution to remove the  provision that disqualifies a
member of the  Legislative Assembly from holding office for the term following the election after the
member’s current term is completed if  the member fails to attend 10 or more legislative floor ses-
sions without permission or excuse.
Refers the proposed amendment to the people for their approval or rejection at the next regular
general election.
JOINT RESOLUTION
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
PARAGRAPH 1.
 Section 15, Article IV  of the Constitution of the State of Oregon, is amended
to read:
Sec. 15.  Punishment and expulsion of members.  Either house may punish its members  for dis-
orderly behavior, and may with the  concurrence of two thirds, expel a member; but not a second
time for the same cause. [ Failure to attend, without permission or excuse, ten or more legislative floor
sessions called  to transact business during a regular or special legislative session shall be deemed
disorderly behavior and shall disqualify the member from holding  office as a Senator or Representative
for the term following the election after the member’s current term is completed. ]
PARAGRAPH 2. The amendment proposed by this resolution shall be submitted to  the
people for their approval or rejection  at the next regular general election held throughout
this state.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 4401