1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 328
Sponsored by Senator JAMA (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act prohibits animal shelters from killing dogs  or cats due to a lack of space. The
Act makes an exception for dogs or cats with  fatal illnesses or severe injuries. The Act requires
certain related reporting. (Flesch Readability Score: 63.9).
Prohibits an animal shelter from destroying a dog or cat on the basis of a lack of space for
housing the dog or cat. Provides an exception if an animal has a terminal illness or severe  injury.
Instructs animal shelters to annually report  on the destruction of animals. Instructs the State De-
partment of Agriculture to  annually report to committees or interim committees of the Legislative
Assembly related to animals on the destruction of animals by animal shelters.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to the destruction of animals by animal shelters.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) A city or county that maintains a facility to perform animal control
functions, a facility with which a city  or county has contracted to perform animal control
functions or a humane society:
(a) May not cause a dog or cat to be  destroyed, as described in ORS 609.405, on the basis
of a lack of space for housing the dog or cat.
(b) Shall establish a clear and documented limit for  housing dogs and cats that is ap-
proved by the State Department of Agriculture.
(c) Shall submit a report to the department by July 1 of each year describing:
(A) The intake of dogs and cats since the last report under this paragraph.
(B) Limits for housing dogs and cats that are established under paragraph (b) of  this
subsection.
(C) Any destruction  of animals, including dogs or cats, since the last report under this
paragraph, including reasons for the destruction.
(2) Subsection (1)(a) of this section  does not apply to the destruction of a dog or cat that
is suffering from a terminal illness  or severe injury, as determined by a licensed
veterinarian.
(3) The department shall:
(a) Establish a process for approving limits for housing dogs and cats, as  described in
subsection (1)(b) of this section.
(b) Report, in the manner prescribed by ORS 192.245, to  committees or interim commit-
tees of the Legislative  Assembly related to animals, on or before September 1 of each year,
on the reports the department received  pursuant to subsection (1)(c) of this section since the
department’s last report under this paragraph.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 3251