1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Concurrent Resolution 7
Sponsored by Representative EVANS (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Declares a state policy on human rights. (Flesch Readability Score: 66.7).
Declares that it is the policy of the State of Oregon to protect refugee and immigrant rights.
CONCURRENT RESOLUTION
Whereas the State of Oregon has long  benefitted from the arrival of refugees from economic,
political and religious strife; and
Whereas the State of  Oregon embraces diversity of background and experience as a foundational
element of our state’s past, present and future successes; and
Whereas the State of Oregon continues to send  men and women, including immigrants, into
harm’s way to defend the ideals of freedom, justice and liberty for all; and
Whereas the State of Oregon recognizes the value and virtue of compassion, comity and  com-
munity; and
Whereas the State of Oregon was built  on and shall be sustained through the passion, perspec-
tive and perseverance of people  born in Oregon as well as those who choose to make Oregon a new
home; now, therefore,
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
That we, the members  of the Eighty-third Legislative Assembly, declare that it is the policy of
the State of  Oregon to embrace our state’s role as a caretaker of democracy, as a defender of the
rights of  humankind and as a shelter for all persons seeking safe harbor from oppression, regardless
of gender, race, nationality, religion, sexual orientation or socioeconomic status.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 3237