1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 597
Sponsored by Senator CAMPOS,  Representative JAVADI; Representatives NELSON, VALDERRAMA (Presession
filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act tells OHA to create a grant program to promote  oral health care coordination.
(Flesch Readability Score: 67.5).
Directs the Oregon Health Authority to establish a grant  program to provide financial support
to certified dental sealant  programs that promote and engage in oral health care coordination ac-
tivities. Provides the manner in which the authority shall distribute grant funds to grantees.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to oral health care coordination.
Whereas active professional care coordination is proven  to reduce barriers to care and improve
health outcomes; and
Whereas there  are no commonly used dental billing codes for oral health care coordination; and
Whereas approximately one-quarter of grade school students  seen by Oregon Health Authority-
certified oral health screening and sealant programs require follow-up dental care; and
Whereas investment in care coordination and an innovative workforce is  essential to achieving
the oral health care goals in this state; now, therefore,
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) As used in this section, “certified dental  sealant program” means a local
school-based dental sealant program described in ORS 431A.725 that is certified by  the
Oregon Health Authority.
(2) The authority shall establish a  program to award grants to provide financial support
to certified dental sealant programs that promote and  engage in oral health care coordi-
nation activities.
(3) The  authority shall distribute grant funds under this section to grantees on a pro-
portional basis relative to the number of schools that a certified dental  sealant program
serves.
(4) The authority shall prescribe by rule the forms and processes  by which a certified
dental sealant program may apply for  grants under this section, including the length of time
the application period shall remain open.
(5) As soon as practicable after the close of an application period,  the authority shall
review all timely and complete applications, in accordance with rules adopted by the au-
thority, and approve or reject each application and disburse grant awards to approved grant
applicants no later than August 1 of each calendar year.
SECTION 2.
There is appropriated to the Oregon Health Authority, for the biennium  be-
ginning July 1, 2025, out of the General  Fund, the amount of $900,000 for the purpose of
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2423
SB 597
1
2
carrying out the provisions of section 1 of this 2025 Act.
[2]