1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2722
Sponsored by Representative EVANS (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act says ODOT must work with others to help with some of ODOT’s responsibilities.
(Flesch Readability Score: 61.8).
Directs the Department of Transportation to enter  into agreements with any qualified provider
to assist the department with certain functions of the department.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to the use of integrators for vehicle-related transactions; amending ORS 802.600.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 802.600 is amended to read:
802.600. (1) The Department of Transportation [ may] shall  enter into an agreement with any
qualified provider to transact on behalf of the department the following functions of the  department:
(a) Any vehicle-related transaction for which the department is responsible.
(b) Processing of fees or taxes for a vehicle-related  transaction for which the department is re-
sponsible.
(c) Written and skills testing for driver licenses and permits, including  commercial driver li-
censes.
(2) An agreement described in subsection (1) of this section may  be in any form and may contain
any provisions that the department determines to be in the best interests of the public and  conven-
ient for the department, including  but not necessarily limited to provisions that allow the depart-
ment to:
(a) Ensure product quality control.
(b) Audit activities of the qualified provider entering into the  agreement to ensure compliance
with the agreement.
(c) Impose sanctions on a qualified provider for violation of the agreement.
(3) A qualified provider authorized to transact business for the  department under this section,
including but not limited to a qualified provider who transacts business under  contract with an
integrator, may charge a fee for the services provided. Fees  authorized under this subsection are in
addition to any charges or fees that the department is authorized by statute to collect for the
transaction.
(4)(a) The department may adopt such rules as are necessary to  carry out the provisions of this
section, including but not limited to rules that:
(A) Specify criteria for eligibility of a  qualified provider to enter into an agreement with the
department under this section.
(B) Specify the manner in which fees authorized by this section will be collected and  establish
any notification the qualified provider is required to give the public about the fees.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2693
HB 2722
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
(C) Require a bond in  an amount determined by the department from a qualified provider acting
under an agreement described in this section.
(D) Prohibit disclosure of personal information from driver or vehicle records except  in accord-
ance with applicable laws.
(b) The department may not adopt rules establishing the amount of a  fee to be charged by a
qualified provider acting under this section.
(c) Rules adopted under this  subsection shall be developed in consultation with persons who
might enter into agreements with the department under this section, including but  not limited to
integrators and vehicle dealers.
(5) As used in this section:
(a) “Integrator” means a person  who enters into a contract with the Department of Transpor-
tation:
(A) To provide information and  supplies to a qualified provider who transacts business for the
department under an agreement described in this section; and
(B) To collect moneys due from qualified providers who transact the business and remit  the
moneys to the department.
(b) “Qualified provider” means:
(A) Community college operated under ORS chapter 341;
(B) Education service district; or
(C) Person who is not an employee of the department, including but not  limited to an integrator.
[2]