1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2768
Sponsored by Representative EVANS (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act tells  ODEM to contract with one or more persons to help acquire and use re-
sources for emergencies. (Flesch Readability Score: 67.3).
Directs the Oregon Department of Emergency Management to contract  with one or more
philanthropic liaisons. Specifies the minimum duties of philanthropic liaisons.
Declares an emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to philanthropic liaisons for emergency preparedness; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Oregon Department of Emergency Management shall contract with
one or more persons to serve as philanthropic liaisons for the department.
(2) The department shall specify the duties of a philanthropic liaison by contract. Such
duties must include:
(a) Improving coordination between private and  public resources available for emergency
preparedness; and
(b) Acting as liaison between the  following entities to coordinate procurement and dis-
tribution of resources:
(A) The department;
(B) State and national philanthropic entities;
(C) Community organizations active in disaster;
(D) Long-term recovery groups;
(E) Other community organizations; and
(F) Survivors of an emergency.
(3) A philanthropic liaison is an independent contractor and is not a state agency for any
purpose.
(4) As used in this section:
(a) “Community  organization active in disaster” means an organization or network of
organizations that is prepared to address emergency prevention, preparedness,  response and
recovery at a local level.
(b) “Long-term recovery group”  means a cooperative organization comprising represen-
tatives of nonprofit, governmental, business and faith-based entities  that works within a lo-
cal community to prepare for, build resilience against and recover from emergencies.
SECTION 2.
This 2025 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the  public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is  declared to exist, and this 2025 Act takes effect
on its passage.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2435
HB 2768
1
[2]