1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 856
Printed pursuant to  Senate Interim Rule 213.28 by order of the President of the Senate in conformance with pre-
session filing rules,  indicating neither advocacy nor opposition on the part of the President (at the request
of Governor Tina Kotek for Oregon Racing Commission)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act allows people connected to the ORC to  make bets on races as a part of an of-
ficial audit. (Flesch Readability Score: 72.3).
Authorizes members and staff  of the Oregon Racing Commission, and family members thereof,
to place bets or wagers on certain race meets in the course of official auditing duties.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to prohibited activities related to racing; amending ORS 462.273.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 462.273 is amended to read:
462.273. (1) No member,  employee or appointee of the Oregon Racing Commission, or the im-
mediate family member of such a person, may:
[(1)] (a)  Own or have any other  financial interest in any animal participating in any race meet
in Oregon.
[(2)] (b) Own or have any other financial interest  in any race meet, public training track or race
course in Oregon.
[(3)] (c)  Bet or wager, in any manner, on any race meet held under the  license and supervision
of the commission if such individual acts in an  official capacity in connection with that race meet ,
except as provided in subsection (2) of this section .
(2) Subsection (1)(c) of this section does not prohibit a person from placing a bet or wager
in the course of carrying out official auditing duties.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 482