1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 753
Sponsored by Senator GORSEK, Representative NATHANSON; Senator PHAM K
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act tells ODOT to work with others  to plan and pay for rail. Every two years,
ODOT must report to the JCT about the plans and progress for rail  transportation. (Flesch Read-
ability Score: 76.4).
Directs the Department of Transportation to work with the  Washington State Department of
Transportation and the British Columbia Ministry of Transportation and  Infrastructure to develop
plans to operate and fund rail transportation.
Directs the Department of Transportation to submit a biennial  report on plans to the Joint
Committee on Transportation.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to rail.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Department of Transportation shall work with the  Washington State
Department of Transportation, the British Columbia  Ministry of Transportation and
Infrastructure and other public bodies, as appropriate, to document and memorialize,  in
whatever form is the most appropriate, a shared regional approach to  Cascades passenger
rail planning, funding and communications including:
(a) Developing a plan to document the shared vision, goals  and objectives for passenger
rail service and freight rail service within the Cascades Rail Corridor.
(b) Developing a plan to achieve  performance goals, manage fleet assets, share costs,
prioritize investments, improve infrastructure and resolve interagency disputes.
(c) Proposing funding options to the respective legislative  bodies to support the
infrastructure improvements and operation of passenger and freight trains within the corri-
dor.
(d) Developing federal funding applications consistent  with the shared plans described in
paragraphs (a) and (b) of this subsection.
(e) Developing a stakeholder outreach program.
(f) Overseeing operations and marketing of daily passenger rail service in the corridor.
(2) The Department of Transportation  may enter into agreements with the Washington
State Department of Transportation to coordinate shared passenger rail service  development
plans.
(3) As used  in this section, “public body” has the meaning given that term in ORS 174.109.
SECTION 2.
Before January 1 of each odd-numbered year, the  Department of Transpor-
tation shall submit a report to the Joint Committee on Transportation,  in the manner pro-
vided in ORS 192.245, about the following:
(1) The status  of the shared regional approach and plans with the Washington State De-
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 3485
SB 753
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
partment of Transportation and the British Columbia  Ministry of Transportation and
Infrastructure regarding transportation by rail within the Cascades Rail Corridor.
(2) The performance of passenger rail service within the corridor.
(3) The financial status of the corridor and financial needs for passenger  rail service
within the corridor.
SECTION 3.
The Department of Transportation may enter into agreements with the
Washington State Department of Transportation and  other governmental entities related to
developing shared objectives for passenger and freight rail, developing regional approaches
to rail infrastructure improvements and enabling joint  proposals to federal and other funding
sources.
[2]