1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
80th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2019 Regular Session
House Bill 3034
Sponsored by Representative ALONSO LEON;  Representatives GORSEK, HELM, LIVELY, MITCHELL, Senators
DEMBROW, FAGAN, MANNING JR
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced.
Establishes Legislative Assembly  Paid Internships Program to provide stipends to interns per-
forming services in offices of members of Legislative Assembly. Provides that stipends to be  offered
are to be of equal value. Appropriates moneys to fund program.
Declares emergency, effective July 1, 2019.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to paid internships at the Legislative Assembly; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) As used in  this section, “internship” means an arrangement, however
denominated, where a student at  a community college or other institution of higher educa-
tion agrees to perform services in and study the operations and activities of one  or more
offices of  members of the Legislative Assembly in exchange for receiving academic credit at
the community college or other institution of higher education attended by the student.
(2) The Legislative Assembly  Paid Internships Program is established, for the purpose
of providing stipends to interns participating in an internship with  the offices of members
of the Legislative Assembly.
(3) The amount of each stipend available for an  intern shall be determined by the Presi-
dent of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives following a recommen-
dation by the Legislative Administrator and  shall be based on available funds, so that each
participating legislator’s office is  able to provide a stipend of equal value to those interns
performing services in the Senate and the House of Representatives during a semester  or
other academic period during which the services are being performed.
(4) Each caucus office of the Legislative Assembly shall determine which stipends are to
be made available to which member’s office, except that the President and the Speaker may
reserve stipend amounts for interns performing services in the offices of the President  and
the Speaker, respectively.
SECTION 2.
There is appropriated to the Legislative  Assembly, for the biennium begin-
ning July 1, 2019, out of the General Fund, the amount of $  for the purpose  of
funding stipends for interns who are participating in internships with the offices of members
of the Legislative Assembly.
SECTION 3.
This 2019 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist,  and this 2019 Act takes effect
on July 1, 2019.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2429