1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
81st OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2021 Regular Session
House Bill 2234
Sponsored by Representative WILDE (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Requires Director of Department of Consumer and Business Services to prescribe in  appropriate
specialty codes standards, safeguards and  guidelines for incorporating fire prevention and
fireproofing  or  fire resistance measures into construction, repair, renovation, rehabilitation,
retrofitting or maintenance of buildings and other structures that are located  in areas of this state
that are subject to or susceptible to wildfires.
Requires director to provide by rule that owners  of buildings and structures located in areas
of this state that are subject to or susceptible to  wildfires must obtain and maintain fire insurance
policy that would enable  owner to rebuild or replace building or structure and that as condition of
coverage building or structure must implement specific fire prevention or resistance measures, in-
cluding, but not limited to,  maintenance of space between building or structure and sources of
combustion that would be sufficient  to reduce likelihood of fire damage and increase effectiveness
of firefighting efforts.
Provides that building or structure significantly damaged  or destroyed by fire in area that was
subject to wildfires during period beginning August 1, 2020, and ending November  30, 2020, may be
reconstructed or rebuilt within three years after destruction by fire.
Declares emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to emergency preparedness; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
Section 2 of this 2021 Act is added to and made a part of ORS chapter 455.
SECTION 2. (1) The Director  of the Department of Consumer and Business Services, af-
ter consulting with appropriate advisory boards and the State  Fire Marshal, shall prescribe
in appropriate specialty codes standards, safeguards and  guidelines for incorporating fire
prevention and fireproofing or fire resistance  measures into construction, repair, renovation,
rehabilitation, retrofitting or maintenance of buildings  and other structures that are located
in areas of this state that are subject to or susceptible to wildfires.
(2) The  standards, safeguards and guidelines described in subsection (1) of this section
must apply to both commercial and residential buildings and structures in this state, but  the
director may prescribe differing standards, safeguards and guidelines that are appropriate for
each category of building or structure.
(3) The State Fire Marshal  shall cooperate with the director in identifying areas of this
state in which the standards, safeguards and guidelines described in subsection (1)  of this
section should apply.
SECTION 3.
Section 4 of this 2021 Act is added to and made a part of ORS chapter 742.
SECTION 4. (1) The Director of the Department  of Consumer and Business Services by
rule shall require owners of buildings and structures located in areas of this state  that are
subject to or susceptible to wildfires to obtain and maintain a fire insurance  policy for the
building or structure that provides a level  of coverage that would enable the owner to rebuild
or replace the building or structure. The director shall require as a condition of  coverage
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1507
HB 2234
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
under the fire insurance policy  that the building or structure implement specific fire pre-
vention or resistance measures, including, but not limited to, the maintenance  of space be-
tween the building or structure and sources of combustion that would  be sufficient to reduce
the likelihood of fire damage to the building or structure and to increase the effectiveness
of firefighting efforts.
(2) The State Fire Marshal shall cooperate with the director in  identifying areas of this
state in which owners of buildings  and structures must obtain and maintain the fire insur-
ance coverage described in subsection (1) of this section.
SECTION 5.
Notwithstanding any requirement to the contrary in a  comprehensive plan
or in a zoning, subdivision or related ordinance or regulation  that applies to land within a
county, a building or other structure that was allowed as  a permitted or conditional use and
that was significantly damaged or destroyed by fire in an area that was subject to  a wildfire
during the period beginning August 1, 2020, and  ending November 30, 2020, may be recon-
structed or rebuilt within three years after the date on which the building  or structure was
destroyed by fire. The building or structure must be reconstructed or rebuilt  in accordance
with the original permitted or conditional use approved for the building or structure.
SECTION 6. The Director of the Department of Consumer and Business Services shall
propose emergency rules to implement the  provisions of sections 2 and 4 of this 2021 Act
within 30 days after the effective date of this 2021 Act.
SECTION 7. This 2021 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the  public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is  declared to exist, and this 2021 Act takes effect
on its passage.
[2]