1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2026 Regular Session
House Bill 4022
Introduced and  printed pursuant to House Rule 12.00. Presession filed (at the request of House Interim Committee
on Rules for Representative Ben Bowman)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act establishes a program to provide a free book each  month to certain children.
(Flesch Readability Score: 67.5).
Establishes the Oregon Imagination Library Program to provide a  free book each month to eli-
gible children, encourage children to develop a love  of reading and learning and improve school
readiness, third-grade reading proficiency and high school  graduation rates. Directs the Department
of Early Learning and Care to implement and administer the program.  Authorizes the Early Learn-
ing Council, in consultation with the department, to adopt rules necessary to implement the pro-
gram.
Establishes the Oregon Imagination Library Account within  the department for purposes of
funding the program.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to children’s literacy.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) As used in this section:
(a) “Eligible children”  means children from birth to five years of age who reside in this
state.
(b) “National nonprofit foundation” means a  national nonprofit foundation that works
with local entities in this state to provide age-appropriate,  high-quality books each month to
eligible children at no cost to families.
(2) The Oregon Imagination Library Program is established for the purpose of:
(a) Providing a free,  age-appropriate book each month to eligible children who are en-
rolled in the program;
(b) Encouraging children from birth to five years of age to develop a deep love of reading
and learning; and
(c) Improving school  readiness, third-grade reading proficiency and high school gradu-
ation rates.
(3) The Department  of Early Learning and Care shall implement and administer the
program, including by entering into a contract with a statewide nonprofit entity that is  ex-
empt from taxation under  section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code under which the
statewide nonprofit entity shall:
(a) Serve as the program coordinator and operations manager;
(b) Ensure the program is  available to all eligible children in this state regardless of
county or zip code;
(c) Provide moneys to a national nonprofit  foundation for the purpose of covering the
wholesale cost and mailing of books to children enrolled in the program;
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 304
HB 4022
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
(d) Promote the program and increase enrollment  across the state in consultation with
local stakeholders; and
(e) Solicit, receive and manage donations, gifts and  other private funding to support the
program.
(4) The department shall undertake reasonable measures to ensure that state  funds do
not exceed 50 percent of  the total cost to carry out the program in any fiscal year, including
the wholesale cost and mailing of books to children enrolled in the program.
(5) The Early Learning Council, in consultation with  the department, may adopt rules
necessary to implement the provisions of this section.
SECTION 2.
(1) The Oregon Imagination Library  Account is established within the De-
partment of Early Learning and Care Fund.
(2) The account  shall consist of moneys appropriated or otherwise transferred to the
account by the Legislative Assembly and gifts,  grants, donations or other funds deposited
into the account from any source.
(3) Separate records shall be maintained for moneys in  the account, and interest earned
by the account shall be credited to the account.
(4) Moneys  in the account are continuously appropriated to the Department of Early
Learning and Care for the purpose of carrying out  the Oregon Imagination Library Program
established under section 1 of this 2026 Act.
[2]