1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
79th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2018 Regular Session
House Bill 4006
Sponsored by Representative KOTEK; Representatives ALONSO LEON, DOHERTY,  KENY-GUYER, NOSSE,
SMITH WARNER (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced.
Requires Housing and Community Services Department to annually provide to  each city and
county data showing percentage of individuals resident in city or county  who are severely rent
burdened. Requires city or county in which at least 25 percent  of population is severely rent bur-
dened to hold public meeting  to discuss issue and submit plan to department to reduce rent burdens
for severely rent burdened individuals in city or county.
Declares emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to housing; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) For purposes of this section,  an individual is severely rent burdened if
the individual lives in a household that pays more than 50 percent of the income of  the
household on rent for housing that is the primary residence of the individual.
(2) The Housing and Community  Services Department shall annually provide to the gov-
erning body of each city and county in this state  the most current data available from the
United States  Census Bureau, or any other source the department considers at least as re-
liable, showing the percentage  of individuals resident in the city or county, respectively, who
are severely rent burdened.
(3) In any year in which the governing body of a city or county is informed under this
section that  at least 25 percent of the population of the city or county, respectively, is se-
verely rent burdened, the governing body shall:
(a) Hold at  least one public meeting to discuss the causes and consequences of severe
rent burdens within the city or county, the barriers to reducing rent burdens and  possible
solutions; and
(b) Submit  a plan to the department detailing how the city or county will reduce rent
burdens for severely rent burdened individuals.
(4) The department  may adopt rules governing the conduct of the public meetings and
the timing and contents of the plans required under subsection (3) of this section.
SECTION 2. (1) Section 1 of this 2018 Act  becomes operative on the 91st day after the
date on which the 2018 regular session of the Seventy-ninth  Legislative Assembly adjourns
sine die.
(2) Notwithstanding the operative date specified in  subsection (1) of this section, the
Housing and Community Services Department may, before  the operative date specified in
subsection (1) of this  section, adopt rules and take any action necessary for the department
and the governing bodies of cities and counties  to comply with section 1 of this 2018 Act on
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 192
HB 4006
1
2
3
4
5
and after the operative date specified in subsection (1) of this section.
SECTION 3. This 2018 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist,  and this 2018 Act takes effect
on its passage.
[2]