1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 3768
Sponsored by Representatives CHAICHI, JAVADI, TRAN; Representative HARTMAN, Senator JAMA
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act  makes March 21 of each year Nowruz Day in Oregon. (Flesch Readability Score:
81.8).
Designates March 21 of each year as Nowruz Day.
Declares an emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to Nowruz Day; and declaring an emergency.
Whereas Nowruz, the Persian  New Year, originated over 3,000 years ago in the Iranian religion
of Zoroastrianism; and
Whereas Nowruz,  meaning “new day,” marks the first day of spring, symbolizing renewal
through the rebirth  of nature, promoting peace and solidarity across communities and celebrating
all that has come before through rituals and shared meals; and
Whereas Nowruz is marked by  the presentation of the Haft-seen table, a traditional arrangement
of seven symbolic items with  names starting with the letter “s,” including seer (garlic, symbolizing
health), sabzeh (sprouts, symbolizing rebirth), seeb (apple, symbolizing beauty),  serkeh (vinegar,
symbolizing age), senjed  (dried oleaster fruit, symbolizing love), samanu (wheat paste, symbolizing
sweetness of life) and somagh (sumac, symbolizing patience); and
Whereas Nowruz is rooted in  the traditions of the Iranian peoples, but it has spread to countries
in the Caucasus, the Black Sea Basin, the Balkans, throughout Asia and all across the world; and
Whereas Nowruz transcends borders and unifies peoples  of diverse ethnicities, cultures, lan-
guages and religions and it is celebrated by countless immigrants living in Oregon; and
Whereas in a time of continuing strife in Iran and throughout the world, Nowruz  continues to
spread its hallmark message of eternal optimism, rejuvenation and new beginnings; and
Whereas March 21 has been officially designated  as International Nowruz Day by the United
Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO); now, therefore,
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
March 21 of each year is designated as Nowruz Day.
SECTION 2. This 2025 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the  public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is  declared to exist, and this 2025 Act takes effect
on its passage.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 4389