1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 1051
Sponsored by Senator JAMA (at the request of Governor Tina Kotek)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act gives the  Governor the power to appoint a State Forester. (Flesch Readability
Score:  67.7).
Transfers the authority to appoint a State Forester from the  State Board of Forestry to the
Governor, subject to Senate confirmation.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to the State Forester; amending ORS 526.031.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 526.031 is amended to read:
526.031. (1) [The State Board of Forestry  shall appoint a State Forester, who must be a practical
forester familiar with western conditions and experienced in organization  for the prevention of forest
fires.] The Governor shall appoint a State Forester, subject to Senate confirmation under ORS
171.562 and 171.565. The forester shall  be the chief executive officer of the State Forestry Depart-
ment. The forester shall hold office at the pleasure of the [ board] Governor , and shall act as  [ its
secretary ] the secretary of the State Board of Forestry .
(2) With the approval of the board and subject  to applicable provisions of the State Personnel
Relations Law, the State Forester  may appoint a Deputy State Forester, assistant state foresters and
other employees of the department. The State Forester or Deputy State  Forester must be a
practical forester familiar with  western conditions and experienced in organization for the
prevention of forest fire.  During the State Forester’s absence or disability, all authority shall be
exercised by the Deputy State Forester [ or by the assistant whom  the State Forester or the board, by
written order filed with the Secretary of State, has designated as Acting State Forester ].
[(3) The board shall fix the  compensation of the State Forester. In addition to their salaries, the
forester, the deputy and assistants shall be reimbursed,  subject to the limitations otherwise provided
by law, for their actual and necessary travel and other expenses incurred in the performance of  their
duties.]
(3)(a) The  State Forester shall receive a salary as provided by law or, if not so provided,
as prescribed by the Governor.
(b) In addition to salary, but subject to any applicable law regulating travel  and other
expenses of state officers and employees, the State Forester, the Deputy State Forester and
assistant state foresters shall be reimbursed for actual and necessary travel and other ex-
penses incurred by the State Forester, the Deputy State Forester  and assistant state
foresters in the performance of official duties.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 4463