1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
79th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2017 Regular Session
Senate Joint Resolution 45
Sponsored by Senator BOQUIST
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Proposes amendment to Oregon Constitution expanding use of moneys in State Highway Fund.
Refers proposed amendment to people for their approval or rejection at next  regular general
election.
JOINT RESOLUTION
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
PARAGRAPH 1.
 Section 3a, Article IX of  the Constitution of the State of Oregon, is amended
to read:
Sec. 3a.  (1) Except as provided in [ subsection (2) ] subsections (2) and (3)  of  this section, re-
venue from the following shall be used exclusively for the  construction, reconstruction, improve-
ment, repair, maintenance, operation and use  of public highways, roads, streets and roadside rest
areas in this state:
(a) Any tax levied on, with respect to, or measured by the storage, withdrawal, use, sale,  dis-
tribution, importation or receipt of motor vehicle fuel or any other product  used for the propulsion
of motor vehicles; and
(b) Any tax or excise levied on the ownership, operation or use of motor vehicles.
(2) Revenues described in subsection (1) of this section:
(a) May also be used for  the cost of administration and any refunds or credits authorized by law.
(b) May also be used for the retirement of bonds for which such revenues have been pledged.
(c) If from levies under paragraph (b) of subsection (1)  of this section on campers, motor homes,
travel trailers, snowmobiles, or like vehicles, may also be used for the acquisition, development,
maintenance or care of parks or recreation areas.
(d) If from  levies under paragraph (b) of subsection (1) of this section on vehicles used or held
out for use  for commercial purposes, may also be used for enforcement of commercial vehicle weight,
size, load, conformation and equipment regulation.
(3)(a) Revenues described  in subsection (1) of this section may also be used for projects
that construct, reconstruct, improve, repair, maintain or provide for the  operation and use
of modes of transportation that do not use the public highways,  roads, streets and roadside
rest areas in this state if the  project results in cost savings to the state by reducing the use
of public highways.
(b) The  amount of revenues used for purposes described in paragraph (a) of this sub-
section may not exceed the cost savings over the useful life of the project.
[(3)] (4)  Revenues described in subsection (1) of this section that are  generated by taxes or ex-
cises imposed by  the state shall be generated in a manner that ensures that the share of revenues
paid for the use of light vehicles, including cars, and the share of  revenues paid for the use of heavy
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 3981
SJR 45
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
vehicles, including trucks, is fair and proportionate to the costs  incurred for the highway system
because of each class of vehicle. The Legislative  Assembly shall provide for a biennial review and,
if necessary, adjustment, of revenue sources to ensure fairness and proportionality.
PARAGRAPH 2. The amendment proposed by this resolution shall be submitted to  the
people for their approval or rejection  at the next regular general election held throughout
this state.
[2]