1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 939
Sponsored by Senators PROZANSKI, STARR (at the request of Oregon Coalition for Nonprofit Safety)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act tells ODEM to run a  program to issue grants to nonprofits to improve their
security. (Flesch Readability Score: 60.1).
Directs the Oregon Department of Emergency  Management to establish a program to issue
grants to certain nonprofit organizations for security enhancements.
Declares an emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to security for nonprofit organizations; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) As used in this section:
(a) “Bias crime” means  the commission, attempted commission or alleged commission
of:
(A) An offense described in ORS 166.155 or 166.165; or
(B) An  offense against an organization based on the ideology or mission of the organiza-
tion or the population served by the organization.
(b) “Eligible applicant” means a private organization:
(A) That is qualified for federal tax-exempt status under section 501(c)(3) of the  Internal
Revenue Code; and
(B) That is at particular risk of being subject to a bias crime.
(c) “Eligible facility” means real property owned or operated by an eligible applicant.
(d) “Offense against an organization” includes an offense against an employee or  agent
of the organization.
(e) “Security enhancements” includes, without limitation:
(A) Security assessments and training;
(B) Security personnel;
(C) Upgrades or improvements to windows, doors, gates or security-related landscaping;
and
(D) High-intensity lighting, camera systems, alarms or other security systems.
(2) The Oregon Department of Emergency Management shall develop and administer a
program, to be known as the Oregon Nonprofit Security Grant Program, to provide  grants
to eligible applicants for security enhancements to eligible facilities.
(3) Grants under the program may not exceed $___ per grant application.
(4) Eligible applicants may  submit grant applications to the department in the form and
manner prescribed by the department. The department shall rank  applications based on the
criteria established under subsection (5)  of this section and award grants based on rankings
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1471
SB 939
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
and available moneys.
(5) The department shall, by rule, establish criteria for ranking grant applications  under
the grant program. Criteria must include, but need not be limited to:
(a) An eligible applicant’s and eligible facility’s level of risk of being subject  to a bias
crime;
(b) Whether an eligible applicant or eligible facility has previously been subject  to a bias
crime; and
(c) The level of security measures already in place at eligible facilities.
(6) The department shall adopt rules to implement the grant  program. Rules adopted
under this subsection must include, but need not be limited to:
(a) Policies and procedures for the grant application process;
(b) Terms and conditions of grant agreements entered into by the department and grant
recipients; and
(c) Procedures for  verifying that grant moneys have been used for the purposes for which
they were awarded.
SECTION 2.
The Oregon Nonprofit Security Grant Program Fund is established in the
State Treasury, separate and distinct from the General  Fund. The Oregon Nonprofit Security
Grant Program Fund consists of moneys appropriated, allocated, deposited or transferred  to
the fund by the Legislative Assembly  or otherwise. Moneys in the fund are continuously
appropriated to the Oregon Department of  Emergency Management for the purpose of car-
rying out section 1 of this 2025 Act.
SECTION 3. This 2025 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the  public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is  declared to exist, and this 2025 Act takes effect
on its passage.
[2]