1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
80th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2020 Special Session
House Bill 4205
Sponsored by Representative KOTEK (at the request of Joint Committee on the First Special Session of 2020)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Directs Department of Public Safety  Standards and Training to adopt rules requiring police of-
ficer  to  intervene to stop another police officer from engaging in act that is unethical or that vio-
lates law, rules or policy. Directs department to adopt rules requiring police officer to  report to
appropriate authority when any police officer engages in  act that is unethical or that violates law,
rules or policy.
Declares emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to duties of police officers regarding prohibited behavior; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
Section 2 of this 2020 special session Act is added to and made  a part of ORS
181A.355 to 181A.670.
SECTION 2. (1) The Department of Public Safety Standards  and Training shall adopt
rules requiring a police officer to:
(a) Verbally or physically intervene to stop another police officer from engaging in  any
act that is unethical or that violates law, rules or policy; and
(b) Report to an appropriate authority when a police officer engages in  any act that is
unethical or that violates law, rules or policy.
(2) The rules adopted under this section must provide that failure to intervene  or report
as required by  the rules is grounds for suspension or revocation of a police officer’s certi-
fication.
SECTION 3. This 2020 special session Act  being necessary for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, health and  safety, an emergency is declared to exist, and this 2020 special
session Act takes effect on its passage.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 80