1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 926
Sponsored by Senator SMITH DB
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Bans the recoupment of certain costs that a power company incurs from claims based
on a wildfire. (Flesch Readability Score: 65.1).
Prohibits the recovery from customers of certain costs  and expenses that an electric company
incurs as a result of allegations of a wildfire resulting from the negligence or  a higher degree of
fault on the part of the electric company.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to wildfires resulting from the fault of an electric company.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
Section 2 of this 2025 Act is added to and made a part of ORS chapter 757.
SECTION 2. (1) As used in this section:
(a) “Electric company” means an  electric company, as defined in ORS 757.600, that ser-
vices electricity to more than 25,000 retail electricity consumers located in this state.
(b) “Retail electricity consumer” has the meaning given that term in ORS 757.600.
(2) The following costs  and expenses that an electric company incurs are not recoverable
from retail electricity consumers:
(a) Costs and expenses that are, or are associated with, a criminal or  civil fine or penalty
that is based on allegations that a wildfire resulted  from the negligence or a higher degree
of fault on the part of the electric company.
(b) Costs and expenses that  are, or are associated with, a judgment or settlement from
a civil action that  is based on allegations of losses, expenses or damages caused by a wildfire
that resulted from the negligence or a higher  degree of fault on the part of the electric
company.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1362