1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 493
Sponsored by Senator SMITH DB; Representative GRAYBER (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The  Act says an EMR and an EMT can draw up and give doses of a drug to stop an
opioid overdose. (Flesch Readability Score: 80.7).
Allows an emergency medical  responder and an emergency medical technician to draw up and
administer one or  more doses of a short-acting opioid antagonist from a container that contains
multiple doses of the short-acting opioid antagonist.
Declares an emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to short-acting opioid antagonists; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
Section 2 of this 2025 Act is added to and made a part of ORS chapter 682.
SECTION 2. (1) As used in this section:
(a) “Emergency medical responder” and “emergency medical technician” have  the
meanings given those terms by the Oregon Health Authority by rule.
(b) “Short-acting opioid antagonist” has the meaning given that term in ORS 689.800.
(2) An emergency medical responder and an emergency  medical technician may draw up
for administration, and may administer as needed, one or  more doses of a short-acting opioid
antagonist from a vial or other container that contains multiple doses of the short-acting
opioid antagonist.
SECTION 3.
This 2025 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the  public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is  declared to exist, and this 2025 Act takes effect
on its passage.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2657