1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 3203
Sponsored by  Representative NGUYEN H, Senator GELSER BLOUIN; Representatives RUIZ, WRIGHT, Senator
FREDERICK (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act tells ODE to put together an advisory group to help make school  attendance
better. (Flesch Readability Score: 63.6).
Directs the Department of Education to convene  an advisory committee regarding attendance
improvement.
Declares an emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to school attendance; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The  Department of Education shall convene an advisory committee to
recommend for adoption by the State Board of Education a policy regarding the improvement
of school attendance, especially for students who experience language barriers.
(2) The advisory committee shall include representatives from at least:
(a) The Department of Human Services;
(b) The Department of Education;
(c) The State Board of Education;
(d) An association representing school boards;
(e) An association representing Oregon educators;
(f) An association representing Oregon school employees; and
(g) An association representing school district administrators.
(3) The advisory  committee shall provide information that the Department of Education
may use to develop a memorandum of understanding, including information on:
(a) Current practices used to improve attendance, including  but not limited to family
coach programming and other approaches that involve collaboration between school districts
and the Department of Human Services; and
(b) Common practices that involve formal communication  between educators, school
districts and the department.
SECTION 2.
This 2025 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist,  and this 2025 Act takes effect
on its passage.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2330