1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Concurrent Resolution 30
Sponsored by Representative HELFRICH, Senator BONHAM
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Pays respect to Friends of  Timberline for five decades of service to Timberline Lodge.
(Flesch Readability Score: 65.7).
Recognizes  and  honors Friends of Timberline for five decades of exceptional service in preserv-
ing and celebrating the historic Timberline Lodge.
CONCURRENT RESOLUTION
Whereas Friends of Timberline was founded by Oregonians in 1975  with a mission to preserve
and conserve the iconic Timberline Lodge, an  Oregon treasure and National Historic Landmark; and
Whereas Timberline Lodge, constructed during  the Great Depression as part of the Works
Progress Administration, stands as a testament to American craftsmanship, ingenuity and  resilience;
and
Whereas Friends of Timberline has been a steadfast partner with the  United States Forest Ser-
vice and area operator R.L.K. and Company,  sharing an initiative for collaborative stewardship to
maintain the viability and  character of the historic structure and environs, to meet obligations to
guests and the American people and to reaffirm protocols and responsibilities as stewards; and
Whereas Friends of Timberline has contributed  to public education, archival collection, research
to benefit future generations and outreach efforts that raise awareness  of Timberline Lodge’s role
in Oregon’s history, culture and tourism economy; and
Whereas 2025 marks the 50th anniversary of Friends of Timberline’s ongoing  commitment to a
shared vision and sustainable public-private partnership as Oregon’s first “friends of” nonprofit; now,
therefore,
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
That we, the members of the Eighty-third Legislative Assembly, recognize and honor Friends  of
Timberline for five decades  of exceptional service in preserving and celebrating the historic
Timberline Lodge; and be it further
Resolved, That we express our deepest appreciation for the perseverance of Friends of
Timberline in ensuring the lodge  remains a beacon of Oregon’s heritage and a beloved destination
for visitors worldwide; and be it further
Resolved, That a copy of this resolution shall be presented to Friends of Timberline in  recogni-
tion of this momentous anniversary and their enduring legacy.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 4695