1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Joint Memorial 3
Sponsored by Senator GIROD (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The  measure makes a request of the President and the federal government. The measure
asks for money for property damage caused by fires that start on federal lands.  (Flesch Readability
Score:  62.7).
Urges the establishment and funding  of a federal system to reimburse state and local govern-
ment property owners and private property owners  for damage to real property that results from the
spreading of wildfires originating on federal lands.
JOINT MEMORIAL
To the President of the United States and the Senate and the House of Representatives of the United
States of America, in Congress assembled:
We, your memorialists, the Eighty-third Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon,  in legisla-
tive session assembled, respectfully represent as follows:
Whereas the United States has adopted and administered management policies for  federal lands
that have resulted in the undue accumulation  of slash, wood waste and other debris in high volumes;
and
Whereas the accumulation of slash, wood waste and other debris on federal lands  greatly in-
creases the difficulty of preventing wildfires and hampers the containment and  extinguishing of
wildfires that originate on federal lands; and
Whereas the United States has adopted and administered wildfire  fighting policies for federal
lands that inhibit the rapid and effective employment of  resources to fight wildfires before the
wildfires can spread from federal lands; and
Whereas the spreading of wildfires originating on federal lands has caused  significant damage
to state and local government real property and private real property in Oregon and  elsewhere, in-
cluding the loss of numerous homes; now, therefore,
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
That we, the members of  the Eighty-third Legislative Assembly, respectfully urge the President
and Congress of the United States to provide and  fund an expedient and efficient system to fully
reimburse state and local  government property owners and private property owners for damage to
real property that results  from the spreading of wildfires originating on federal lands; and be it
further
Resolved, That a copy of this memorial shall  be sent to the President of the United States, to
the Senate Majority Leader, to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and  to each member
of the Oregon Congressional Delegation.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1437