1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2023 Regular Session
Senate Joint Resolution 34
Sponsored by COMMITTEE ON RULES
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Proposes amendment to Oregon  Constitution to establish Independent Public Service Compen-
sation Commission. Provides that specified individuals are ineligible for membership  on commission.
Directs commission to establish salaries for  specified public officials. Provides that moneys sufficient
to pay  for salaries are appropriated from General Fund upon commission’s adoption of its determi-
nations.
Refers proposed amendment to people for their approval or rejection at next  regular general
election.
JOINT RESOLUTION
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
PARAGRAPH 1.
 The Constitution of the State of Oregon is amended by creating a new  section
2 to be added to and made a part of Article XIII, such section to read:
SECTION 2. (1) The Independent Public Service Compensation Commission is  to be es-
tablished in the manner provided by law.
(2) None of the following may be a member of the commission:
(a) An officer or employee of the State of Oregon;
(b) An individual required by law to register with any state agency as a lobbyist; or
(c) An immediate family member of an individual described in paragraph (a) or (b) of  this
subsection.
(3) The Legislative Assembly may, by law, establish classes of individuals ineligible  for
membership on the commission in  addition to those specified in subsection (2) of this section.
(4)(a) Once established, the commission shall  determine the amounts of the salaries to
be paid to the officials specified in subsection (5) of this section, notwithstanding section  29,
Article IV, and section 1, Article  VII (Amended) of this Constitution. The determinations of
the commission constitute the salaries to be paid to the specified officials.
(b) The commission shall make its  determinations before January 30 of each odd-
numbered year to be effective for the biennium beginning July 1 of that year.
(5) The commission shall establish salaries for the following officials:
(a) Governor;
(b) Secretary of State;
(c) State Treasurer;
(d) Attorney General;
(e) Commissioner of the Bureau of Labor and Industries or any successor agency;
(f) Judges of the Supreme Court;
(g) Judges of other courts described in section 1, Article VII (Amended)  of this Consti-
tution;
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 4412
SJR 34
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
(h) State Senator; and
(i) State Representative.
(6) The commission  may establish different salaries for different classes of officials
within the categories described in paragraphs (f) to (i) of subsection (5) of this section.
(7) Upon  the commission’s adoption of its determinations, moneys sufficient to pay the
salaries determined by the  commission are deemed to be appropriated from the General Fund
for the biennium in which the determinations  are effective, notwithstanding section 4, Arti-
cle IX of this Constitution.
(8) Nothing in this section creates or requires the creation of any state office.
PARAGRAPH 2.
The amendment proposed by this resolution shall be submitted to  the
people for their approval or rejection  at the next regular general election held throughout
this state.
[2]