1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Joint Memorial 8
Sponsored by Representative EVANS (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Urges Congress to pass a law about budgets. (Flesch Readability Score: 71.8).
Urges Congress  to pass legislation to prevent a future shutdown of the federal government from
lasting more than 50 days in the event of an impasse between Congress and the President.
JOINT MEMORIAL
To the President of the United States and the Senate and the House of Representatives of the United
States of America, in Congress assembled:
We, your memorialists, the Eighty-third Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon,  in legisla-
tive session assembled, respectfully represent as follows:
Whereas the most recent shutdown of the federal government began on December 22,  2018, and
it became the longest shutdown in the history of the United States, lasting 35 days; and
Whereas the shutdown  finally ended on January 25, 2019, when the President of the United
States and Congressional leaders agreed to a stop-gap spending bill; and
Whereas federal government shutdowns are increasing in frequency and duration, and the  most
recent shutdown was preceded by shutdowns in 2018 and 2013; and
Whereas during the latest shutdown, hundreds of thousands of federal employees were sent home
without pay and many critical employees were forced to continue working without pay; and
Whereas during the shutdown,  many government services and benefits were reduced or delayed,
and some federal departments and agencies were shut down altogether; and
Whereas the ripple effects  of the shutdown spread widely throughout the entire U.S. economy,
dramatically affecting state and local governments, businesses of every size and  millions of Ameri-
cans; and
Whereas the shutdown reduced U.S. gross domestic product by an estimated $11 billion; and
Whereas the possibility exists that a future shutdown  could last months, paralyzing the federal
government and wreaking havoc on every aspect of our economy and society; and
Whereas there is currently no formal mechanism that would end a  government shutdown in the
absence of a compromise between the President of the United States and Congress; now, therefore,
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
That we, the members  of the Eighty-third Legislative Assembly, respectfully urge the Congress
of the United  States to pass legislation mandating that, after 50 days of a federal government shut-
down, the  government would automatically default to the most recent continuing resolution, thus
providing funding to federal agencies until a permanent agreement is reached; and be it further
Resolved, That a copy of this memorial shall  be sent to the President of the United States, the
Senate Majority Leader, the Speaker of the House  of Representatives and each member of the
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2420
HJM 8
1
2
Oregon Congressional Delegation.
[2]