1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 422
Sponsored by Senator REYNOLDS (at the request of Multnomah County,  County Human Services) (Presession
filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act tells DHS to create a pilot  program to find solutions to better serve people with
IDDs. (Flesch Readability Score: 75.7).
Directs the Department of Human  Services to implement a pilot stabilization program to reduce
disruptions in placement and  identify long-term solutions to better serve individuals with intellectual
or developmental disabilities, including individuals who experience co-occurring diagnoses.
Declares an emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to developmental disabilities services; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) As used in this section:
(a) “Developmental disability” and “intellectual disability” have the meanings given those
terms in ORS 427.005.
(b) “Exception request” means  a request made to the Department of Human Services to
alter a limit or condition on a service based on an individual’s demonstrated need.
(2) The department shall implement  a pilot stabilization program to reduce disruptions
in placement and identify long-term solutions to better serve individuals with intellectual or
developmental disabilities in  this state, including individuals who experience co-occurring
diagnoses. The goals of the program are to:
(a) Reduce or eliminate the need for exception requests;
(b) Reduce or eliminate the need for temporary lodging;
(c) Reduce or eliminate the incidence of foster care placement disruption;
(d) Provide the initial resources needed for foster care providers to meet the  acute be-
havioral, physical and emotional needs of individuals experiencing trauma;
(e) Enhance the ability of youth to engage in prosocial activities  led by the youth’s pri-
mary caregiver; and
(f) Ensure that children have access to opportunities to form safe  and healthy attach-
ments during times of extreme disruption.
(3) The program shall:
(a) For individuals with intellectual or developmental disabilities who are in need of foster
care placement after being  discharged from the Oregon State Hospital, after receiving child
welfare services under ORS 418.005 or after being involved in  the criminal or juvenile justice
system, utilize a stabilization rate assessment to identify  the individuals’ support needs and
provide up to six months of additional funding to  foster care providers until the individuals’
support needs have been accurately assessed.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2770
SB 422
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
(b) Implement a program for training and licensing crisis care providers to  provide spe-
cialized stabilization care for individuals with  intellectual or developmental disabilities who
have co-occurring diagnoses and high acuity.
(c)(A) Establish a centralized provider training  unit to provide ongoing, advanced-level
training and crisis support to providers that are licensed by the department to provide ser-
vices to individuals with intellectual or developmental disabilities; and
(B) Provide grants to counties to design and provide specialized training and technical
assistance to providers.
(d)(A) Establish a coalition to develop sustainable, fiscally responsible solutions  for pro-
viding services to individuals with intellectual or  developmental disabilities who have co-
occurring diagnoses in a manner that integrates supports across state  agencies and
promotes long-term stabilization in the community.
(B) The coalition shall include:
(i) Representatives of the department;
(ii) Representatives of the Oregon Health Authority;
(iii) Representatives of the Oregon Youth Authority;
(iv) Representatives of state agencies who work directly with  individuals with intellectual
or developmental disabilities who experience co-occurring disabilities;
(v) Individuals with intellectual or developmental disabilities who experience co-occurring
disabilities or co-occurring diagnoses; and
(vi) Advocates for individuals with intellectual or developmental disabilities who experi-
ence co-occurring disabilities or co-occurring diagnoses.
(C) The department, the Oregon Health Authority and the Oregon  Youth Authority shall
retain a consultant with experience implementing collaborative framework models  for state,
local or nonprofit organizations to assist the coalition in  achieving the objectives described
in this paragraph.
(4) No later than September 15, 2026, the department shall submit  a report to the interim
committees of the Legislative Assembly related to  human services, in the manner provided
in ORS 192.245, on the outcomes  of the pilot stabilization program and may recommend leg-
islation to implement aspects of the program that were successful.
SECTION 2.
Section 1 of this 2025 Act is repealed on January 2, 2027.
SECTION 3. This 2025 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the  public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is  declared to exist, and this 2025 Act takes effect
on its passage.
[2]