1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 390
Sponsored by Senator GIROD (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act requires UO to transfer its sports  conference receipts to OSU. The Act declares
an emergency and becomes law when the Governor signs it. (Flesch Readability Score: 65.5).
Prohibits the Higher Education Coordinating Commission from  making any distributions during
the 2025-2027 biennium to the University of Oregon unless the University of Oregon transfers to  the
commission for distribution to Oregon State University  the balance of any receipts received by the
University of Oregon from the athletic conference of which the university is a member.
Declares an emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to transfer of certain receipts by the University of Oregon to Oregon State University; and
declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Higher Education  Coordinating Commission may not distribute
moneys to the University of Oregon for the 2025-2027 biennium unless  the University of
Oregon transfers to  the commission for distribution to Oregon State University the excess
balance of any  contract receipts the University of Oregon receives from the athletic confer-
ence of which the University of Oregon is a member.
(2) The commission may not  distribute any moneys under subsection (1) of this section
to Oregon State University that the Attorney General determines is inconsistent with the
requirements of Article I, section 21, of the Oregon Constitution.
SECTION 2.
This 2025 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the  public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is  declared to exist, and this 2025 Act takes effect
on its passage.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1403