1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
79th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2017 Regular Session
House Joint Resolution 4
Sponsored by Representative JOHNSON (at the request of Oregon School Boards Association) (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Removes requirement that Legislative Assembly publish report that  demonstrates appropriation
of money  to ensure that state’s system of education meets quality goals is sufficient or that identifies
reasons for insufficiency.
Refers proposed amendment  to people for their approval or rejection at next regular general
election.
JOINT RESOLUTION
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
PARAGRAPH 1.  Section 8, Article VIII of the Constitution of the State of  Oregon, is amended
to read:
Sec. 8.  Adequate and Equitable Funding.  (1) The Legislative Assembly shall appropriate in each
biennium a sum of money sufficient to ensure that the state’s  system of public education meets
quality goals established by law[ , and publish a  report that either demonstrates the appropriation is
sufficient, or identifies the reasons for the  insufficiency, its extent, and its impact on the ability of the
state’s system of public education to meet those goals ].
(2) Consistent with such legal obligation as it  may have to maintain substantial equity in state
funding, the Legislative Assembly shall  establish a system of Equalization Grants to eligible districts
for each year in which the voters of such districts  approve local option taxes as described in Article
XI, section 11 (4)(a)(B) of this Constitution. The amount of such Grants and eligibility criteria  shall
be determined by the Legislative Assembly.
PARAGRAPH 2. The amendment proposed by this resolution shall be submitted to  the
people for their approval or rejection  at the next regular general election held throughout
this state.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1678