1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 89
Printed pursuant to  Senate Interim Rule 213.28 by order of the President of the Senate in conformance with pre-
session filing rules,  indicating neither advocacy nor opposition on the part of the President (at the request
of Senate Interim Committee on Energy and Environment)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Makes ODOE do outreach and provide certain support. (Flesch Readability Score: 61.2).
Requires the State Department of Energy to  coordinate with other organizations, conduct out-
reach, establish a statewide navigation and support system and provide information in multiple lan-
guages, as part of the department’s single resource for providing  information and assistance related
to available energy efficiency incentives and programs.
Requires the department to create a statewide clearinghouse for energy and energy  efficiency
incentive programs that uses a single, universal application form  and application process. Requires
the department to  coordinate with and encourage other incentive and program providers to partic-
ipate in the statewide clearinghouse. Requires entities to use best  practices to maintain the
confidentiality and security of information and data as required by law.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to energy; creating new provisions; and amending ORS 469.161.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 469.161 is amended to read:
469.161. (1) The State  Department of Energy shall create a single resource that provides to in-
terested  persons  information, technical assistance and assistance in identifying contractors and fi-
nancing options, related to available energy efficiency incentives and programs.
(2) The department shall :
(a) Coordinate information and data exchanges between federal and state agencies, private  and
public utility providers,  and energy efficiency incentive or program providers as may be necessary
to:
[(a)] (A) Create and maintain the single resource described under subsection (1) of this section;
and
[(b)] (B) Support the implementation  and reporting requirements of available energy efficiency
incentives and programs.
(b) Coordinate with trade organizations,  labor organizations and industry professionals
to understand current technologies and programs.
(c) Ensure  that the single resource described under subsection (1) of this section provides
all information and assistance, including  information and assistance that the single resource
provides through an Internet website, in the five most commonly spoken languages in this
state other than English.
(d) Conduct outreach across this state in a culturally accessible manner using resources,
as needed, for non-English speakers, and prioritize outreach efforts toward households  that
have participated or are on a wait list to participate  in other programs that are primarily
focused on assisting households that are low income, energy burdened,  multifamily, living in
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1823
SB 89
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
rental housing or at risk of utility service disconnection.  The department shall incorporate
targeted education opportunities to provide information on:
(A) The resources and options that are available;
(B) How energy and energy efficiency technologies work;
(C) Financial costs and benefits; and
(D) Maintenance, upkeep and repair.
(e) Develop a preferred contractors list that a person may  use to connect with high
quality, preapproved contractors.
(f) Establish a  statewide navigation and support system, including a call center that uses
natural persons,  to assist interested persons to use the single resource described under
subsection (1) of this section.
(3) The department  may contract with [ a nonprofit ] nonprofit organizations or other [ entity]
entities as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this section.
(4) Entities that exchange, compile or maintain information or data under this  section or that
are involved in carrying out the provisions of this section shall use best practices to maintain  the
confidentiality and security of the information and data as required by federal and state law, in-
cluding the Oregon Consumer Information Protection Act and ORS 192.355.
SECTION 2.
(1) The  State Department of Energy shall create a statewide clearinghouse
for energy and energy efficiency incentive programs that focus on:
(a) Increasing household energy efficiency;
(b) Reducing greenhouse gas emissions; and
(c) Reducing utility costs for retail utility customers.
(2) Under the statewide clearinghouse, the  department shall, to the greatest extent pos-
sible:
(a) Develop a single,  universal application form and application process that can be used
to apply for all energy and energy efficiency incentive programs;
(b) Qualify all residential units within a multifamily residential building  if one unit qual-
ifies for an energy or energy efficiency incentive program;
(c) Cross check eligibility between energy and energy efficiency  incentive programs to
ensure a person uses all available resources offered by all energy and energy efficiency in-
centive programs;
(d) Maintain a list of households that have been verified as income eligible  for an energy
or energy  efficiency incentive program and use the list to verify income eligibility for all
other energy and energy  efficiency incentive programs that have income eligibility require-
ments;
(e) Support consumer energy audits and consultations that use a whole-home approach
to identify cost-effective home upgrades, and match a home  energy project with all available
funding sources, including utility bill financing and other lending products; and
(f) Establish  a uniform list of qualified appliance models across energy and energy effi-
ciency incentive programs.
(3) The department shall coordinate with and encourage local  governments, federal and
state agencies, private and public utility  providers, and energy and energy efficiency incen-
tive or program providers to participate in the statewide clearinghouse.
(4) The department and entities that are involved  in carrying out the provisions of this
section shall use best practices to maintain the confidentiality and security of the  informa-
[2]
SB 89
1
2
3
tion and data as  required by federal and state law, including the Oregon Consumer Infor-
mation Protection Act and ORS 192.355.
[3]