1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 3098
Sponsored by Representative LEWIS; Representative LEVY B, Senators NASH, THATCHER (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act requires persons who get grants or loans from state agencies to report  on how
they spent the money. The Act also requires them to report on whether they made any  political
contributions. (Flesch Readability Score: 62.0).
Requires certain recipients of grant or loan  moneys distributed by state agencies to submit an-
nual reports to committees of the Legislative Assembly. Directs state  agencies to notify recipients
of requirements of the Act.
Requires persons required to file reports  under the Act to disclose amounts and recipients of
political contributions made within a specified time frame.
Takes effect on the 91st day following adjournment sine die.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to reporting by recipients of public moneys; and prescribing an effective date.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) Except as  provided in subsection (5) of this section, a recipient of grant
or loan moneys distributed by a state agency shall submit periodic reports,  as described in
this section, that include the following information:
(a) The name and address of the  recipient and the name and contact information of an
individual who may serve as a point of contact for the recipient;
(b) The amount of moneys received from the state agency;
(c) A description of the program or law under which the moneys were distributed;
(d) A detailed accounting of how the moneys were expended; and
(e) Amounts unexpended, if any.
(2) Reports under this section must  be submitted to the standing or interim committee
of the Legislative Assembly relating to ways and means.
(3) An initial  report under this section must be submitted no later than one year after
moneys are  initially distributed to the recipient. Thereafter, a recipient shall submit addi-
tional reports on an annual basis until all moneys are expended.
(4) State agencies that  distribute grant or loan moneys shall notify recipients of the re-
quirements of this section and section 2 of this 2025 Act.
(5) The reporting requirements imposed by this section do not apply to:
(a) Public bodies; or
(b) Individual recipients of grant or loan moneys.
(6) As used in this section:
(a) “Public body” has the meaning given that term in ORS 174.109.
(b) “State agency” means every  state officer, board, commission, department, institution,
branch or agency of the  state government whose costs are paid wholly or in part from funds
held in the State Treasury.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 959
HB 3098
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
SECTION 2.
(1) A person required to file a report under section 1 of this 2025 Act shall:
(a) Within 30 days after the initial  distribution of moneys to the person, disclose the
amount and recipient of any  political contribution made by the person in the three years
preceding the initial distribution of moneys; and
(b) Annually disclose, for three years following the initial  distribution of moneys to the
person, the  amount and recipient of any political contribution made by the person in the
preceding year.
(2) Disclosures under this section must be submitted to the standing or  interim com-
mittee of the Legislative Assembly relating to ways and means.
(3) As used in this section, “political contribution” means a  contribution as defined in
ORS 260.005.
SECTION 3. This 2025 Act takes effect on the 91st day after the date on  which the 2025
regular session of the Eighty-third Legislative Assembly adjourns sine die.
[2]