83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Enrolled
House Bill 2925
Introduced and printed pursuant to House  Rule 12.00. Presession filed (at the request of Governor
Tina Kotek for State Parks and Recreation Department)
CHAPTER .................................................
AN ACT
Relating to ocean shore permitting; creating new provisions; and amending ORS  390.650, 390.659,
390.661, 390.663, 390.666 and 390.725.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.  ORS 390.650 is amended to read:
390.650. (1) Any person who desires a permit to make  an improvement on any property subject
to ORS 390.640 shall apply in writing to the State Parks and Recreation Department on  a form and
in a manner prescribed by the department, stating the kind of and reason for the improvement.
[(2) Upon receipt of a properly completed  application, the State Parks and Recreation Department
shall provide notice of the proposal by causing notice of  the application to be posted at or near the
location of the proposed improvement. The notice  shall include the name of the applicant, a description
of the proposed improvement and its location and a  statement of the time within which interested per-
sons may file a request with the department  for a hearing on the application. The department shall give
notice of  any application, hearing or decision to any person who files a written request with the de-
partment for such notice. ]
(2)(a) The department shall determine whether an application is complete within 30  days
of receiving the application. If the department determines that  an application is complete,
the department shall:
(A) Post written notice of  the application at or near the location of the proposed im-
provement.
(B) Provide written notice and  the opportunity for public hearing for 30 days to affected
federal and state agencies, local governments, federally recognized Indian  tribes in Oregon
and the public.
(C) Provide written notice to:
(i) All landowners whose land is identified in the application;
(ii) All landowners whose land is  adjacent to or directly affected by the proposed im-
provement or associated activities; and
(iii) All persons who file a written request with the department for such notice.
(b) The notice under  paragraph (a) of this subsection shall include the name of the ap-
plicant, a description of the proposed  improvement, the location of the proposed improve-
ment and a statement of the time period within which interested  persons may provide
comments or file with the department a request for a hearing on the  application. The de-
partment shall give notice  of any application, hearing or decision to a person who files a
written request with the department for such notice.
Enrolled House Bill 2925 (HB 2925-A) Page 1
(c) If the department  determines that an application is not complete, the department
shall notify the applicant in  writing of the incomplete status and provide an explanation of
the deficiencies of the application.
(3)(a) Within 30 days after the date of posting  the notice required in subsection (2) of this sec-
tion, the applicant or 10 or more  other interested persons may file a written request with the [ State
Parks and Recreation Department ] department for  a hearing on the application. If such a request
is filed, the department shall set  a time for a hearing to be held by the department. The department
shall cause notice of the hearing to be posted in the  manner provided in subsection (2) of this sec-
tion. The notice shall include the time  and place of the hearing. [ After the hearing on an application
or, if a hearing is not  requested, after the time for requesting a hearing has expired, the department
shall grant the permit if approval would not  be adverse to the public interest. ] ORS chapter 183 does
not apply to a hearing or decision under this section.
(b) Any public body, as defined in ORS 174.109, federal  agency or federally recognized
Indian tribe in Oregon requested by the department to comment on an  application for a
permit must submit its comments  to the department not more than 30 days after receiving
the request for comment. If a public body, federal agency or tribe does not comment on the
application within 30 days, the department shall assume that the  public body, federal agency
or tribe has no objection.
(4)(a) In acting on an application, the [ State Parks and Recreation Department ] department
shall take into consideration the matters described by ORS 390.655. [ The department  shall act on an
application within 60 days  after the date of receipt or, if a hearing is held, within 45 days after the
date of the hearing. ] The department shall issue a permit decision  within 90 days of the date
that the department determines that the application is complete, unless:
(A) The period following a  scheduled hearing would provide less than 45 days for a deci-
sion, in which case the decision shall be made within 45 days after the date of the hearing;
(B) The applicant and the department agree in writing to a longer period of time for  the
department to make a permit decision; or
(C) The  department determines that an extension is reasonably necessary to coordinate
authorization for the use of public lands with the permit decision.
[(a)] (b) The decision of the  department shall include written findings setting forth the specific
reasons for the approval or denial and, if the application is  approved, any conditions the department
considers necessary to maintain the standards established under ORS 390.655.
[(b) A copy of the written findings shall be furnished  to the applicant at the time of approval or
denial of the application by the department as provided in this subsection. ]
(c) The department shall provide a copy of the written findings to  the applicant at the
time the department approves or denies the application.
(5) Subsections (2) and (3) of this section do not apply to :
(a) An application for a permit for the repair, replacement or restoration,  in the same location,
of an authorized improvement or improvement  existing on or before May 1, 1967, if the repair, re-
placement or restoration is  commenced within three years after the damage to or destruction of the
improvement being repaired, replaced or restored occurs.
(b) An application submitted under section 3 of this 2025 Act.
[(6) The State Parks and Recreation  Department may, upon application therefor, either written or
oral, grant an emergency permit  for a new improvement, dike, revetment, or for the repair, replacement
or restoration of an existing, or authorized improvement where property or  property boundaries are in
imminent peril of being destroyed or damaged by action of the Pacific Ocean or the  waters of any bay
or river of this state. Said permit may be granted by the department  without regard to the provisions
of subsections (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) of this section. Any emergency permit granted hereunder  shall
be reduced to writing by the department within 10 days after granting the same with a copy  thereof
furnished to the applicant. ]
Enrolled House Bill 2925 (HB 2925-A) Page 2
[(7) Except as provided by  subsection (8) of this section, each application under subsection (1) of
this section shall be accompanied by a fee to cover, in  part, the expenses of the department in investi-
gating, reviewing and issuing the improvement permits. The application fee for each permit shall be: ]
[(a) $400 for any project for which the construction value is less than $2,500. ]
[(b) $400 for any project for which the construction value is equal to or greater  than $2,500, plus
an additional amount equal to three percent of the construction value over $2,500. ]
[(8) The department may waive or reduce the fee required by subsection (7) of this section for  an
application submitted by a public body, as that term is defined  by ORS 174.109, or tribal government
if the primary purpose of the improvement is: ]
[(a) Restoring, conserving or  protecting the natural, resource, scenic, recreational, cultural or eco-
nomic values of the ocean shore; ]
[(b) Restoring native beach or  dune habitat contributing to the recovery of sensitive species, in-
cluding state and federally listed threatened or endangered species; or ]
[(c) Improving native biological values of the ocean shore. ]
(6)(a) Notwithstanding subsection (1) of this section, the department may issue  an
emergency permit to a person to  alter the ocean shore in response to an active erosion event
or natural hazard for the purpose of making repairs or providing immediate and  temporary
measures to prevent imminent  irreparable harm, injury or damage to persons or existing
infrastructure.
(b) In accordance with the policy and standards in ORS  390.610 and 390.655, the depart-
ment shall adopt rules to administer this subsection, including but not limited to rules es-
tablishing:
(A) The process for requesting and approving emergency authorizations;
(B) Definitions of  “emergency,” “alter,” “temporary measures” and other necessary
terms; and
(C) Requirements necessary to  avoid or minimize impacts to the ocean shore, ocean
shore resources and affected property.
(7)(a) The department shall adopt rules to establish fees for:
(A) Ocean shore improvement permits issued under this section;
(B) Emergency permits issued under this section; and
(C) General authorization permits issued under section 3 of this 2025 Act.
(b) The department shall  establish fees under this subsection in consideration of recovery
of administrative costs to the department, the  type of applicant, the public benefit associated
with the project, the construction value of the project, the impact to  the ocean shore asso-
ciated with the project type and mitigation costs associated with damage to  the ocean shore
or use of the ocean shore.
[(9)] (8) Fees received under this section shall be deposited into a subaccount of  the State Parks
and Recreation Department Fund. Such fees  are continuously appropriated to the department for the
purpose of carrying out the ocean shore program.
[(10)] (9)  As used in this section,  “construction value” includes but is not limited to the costs
of labor and equipment rental.  [For a project involving only the movement of sand or similar material
on the ocean shore, “construction value” shall equal the costs of labor, fees and equipment rental. ]
SECTION 2.
Section 3 of  this 2025 Act is added to and made a part of ORS 390.620 to
390.676.
SECTION 3. (1) Notwithstanding ORS  390.640, the State Parks and Recreation Depart-
ment may, consistent with the policy in ORS 390.610 and standards in ORS  390.655, establish
by rule a general authorization permit for improvements on the ocean shore  if the depart-
ment determines that the activities subject to the permit are substantially similar  in nature,
have effects that are predictable and:
(a) Restore,  conserve, enhance or protect the natural, economic, scenic, recreational or
cultural values of the ocean shore;
Enrolled House Bill 2925 (HB 2925-A) Page 3
(b) Restore native beach or dune habitat contributing to the recovery of sensitive species,
including state or federally listed threatened or endangered species;
(c) Improve native biological values of the ocean shore; or
(d) Cause no more than temporary or minimal impact  to the ocean shore or ocean shore
resources.
(2) A general authorization permit may be granted on a statewide or geographic basis.
(3) The department shall condition any general authorization permit upon actions  nec-
essary to minimize impacts to the ocean shore or ocean shore resources.
(4) The department shall  provide notice of and opportunity for public hearing on any
proposed general authorization permit to affected federal and  state agencies, local govern-
ments, federally recognized Indian tribes in Oregon and the public.
(5) A person proposing to conduct an action under a general authorization permit shall:
(a) Submit an application to the department on a form provided by the department.
(b) Pay to the department the applicable fee specified  by the department under ORS
390.650.
(6) The  department may require public notice and comment before issuing an authori-
zation for an action under a general authorization permit  if the department determines that
notice and comment is in the public  interest. The department may adopt rules to establish
the procedures for notice and comment under this subsection.
(7) Upon receipt of a complete application, and within the time period specified by  the
department by rule, the department may:
(a) Approve the general authorization  permit if the department determines the applica-
tion satisfies all the applicable requirements;
(b) Deny the general authorization permit if the  department determines the application
does not satisfy all the applicable requirements; or
(c) Approve the general  authorization permit subject to additional or modified require-
ments imposed by the department that are designed to protect ocean shore resources.
(8) The department shall amend or rescind a  general authorization permit if the depart-
ment determines that the activities conducted under the permit  are inconsistent with this
section or any rules adopted under this section.
SECTION 4.
 ORS 390.659 is amended to read:
390.659. (1) Any applicant whose application for a permit  under ORS 390.650  or section 3 of
this 2025 Act  has been denied or who objects to any condition imposed on  the permit or any person
aggrieved or adversely affected by the granting of a permit may,  within 30 days after the denial of
the permit or the imposition of the  condition, request a hearing from the State Parks and Recreation
Director.
(2) Upon receipt of a request for hearing from the applicant or if the director finds  that the
person other than the applicant making  the request has a legally protected interest that is adversely
affected by the grant  of the permit, the director shall set the matter down for hearing within 30 days
after receipt of the request. The hearing shall be conducted as  a contested case in accordance with
ORS 183.415 to 183.430, 183.440 to 183.460 and 183.470. The applicant shall  be a party to any con-
tested case hearing requested by a person other than the applicant.
(3) Within 45  days after the hearing the director shall enter an order containing findings of fact
and conclusions of law.  The order shall rescind, affirm or modify the director’s original order. Ap-
peals from the director’s final order may  be taken to the Court of Appeals in the manner provided
by ORS 183.482.
(4) A permit granted by the director may be suspended by the director during  the pendency of
the proceedings before the director and any appeal.  The director shall not suspend the permit unless
the person aggrieved or adversely affected by grant  of permit makes a showing before the director
by clear and convincing evidence that commencement  or continuation of the improvement would
cause irremediable damage and would be inconsistent with ORS 390.610, 390.620  to 390.676, 390.690
and 390.705 to 390.770.
Enrolled House Bill 2925 (HB 2925-A) Page 4
SECTION 5.  ORS 390.661 is amended to read:
390.661. The improvement on any property  within the ocean shore without a permit issued under
ORS 390.650 or section 3 of this 2025 Act , or in a manner contrary to the  conditions set out in the
permit, is a public nuisance.
SECTION 6.  ORS 390.663 is amended to read:
390.663. (1) If the State Parks and Recreation Director determines that any improvement is being
made on property within the ocean shore without a permit issued under ORS  390.650 or section 3
of this 2025 Act , or in a  manner contrary to the conditions set out in the permit, the director may:
(a) Investigate, hold hearings, make orders and take action, as  provided in ORS 390.620 to
390.676, as soon as possible.
(b) For the purpose of investigating conditions relating to such improvements, through the  em-
ployees or the duly authorized representatives  of the State Parks and Recreation Department, enter
at reasonable times upon any private or public property.
(c) Conduct public hearings in accordance with ORS chapter 183.
(d) Publish findings and recommendations as they are developed relative to public policies and
procedures necessary for the correction of conditions or violations of ORS 390.620 to 390.676.
(e) Give notice of any proposed order relating to a violation by personal service  or by mailing
the notice by registered or  certified mail to the person or governmental body affected. Any person
aggrieved by a proposed order of the director may request a hearing within 20  days of the date of
personal service or mailing of the notice. Hearings shall be conducted under the provisions  of ORS
chapter 183 applicable to contested cases, and judicial review of  final orders shall be conducted in
the Court of Appeals according  to ORS 183.482. If no hearing is requested or if the party fails to
appear, a final order shall be issued upon a prima facie case on the record of the department.
(f) Take appropriate action for the enforcement of any  rules or final orders. Any violation of
ORS 390.620 to 390.676 or of any rule  or final order of the director under ORS 390.620 to 390.676
may be enjoined in civil abatement proceedings brought in the name of the State of  Oregon. In any
such proceedings, the director may seek and the court may award a sum  of money sufficient to
compensate the public for any destruction or infringement of any public right of  navigation, fishery
or recreation resulting from  such violation. Proceedings brought by the director shall set forth, if
applicable, the dates of notice and hearing and  the specific rule or order of the director, together
with the facts of noncompliance, the facts giving rise to the public nuisance and a  statement of the
damages to any public right of navigation, fishery or  recreation, if any, resulting from such vio-
lation.
(2) In addition to the administrative action the director may take under subsection (1) of this
section, the director may enter an order requiring any person to cease  and desist from any violation
if the director determines  that such violation presents an imminent and substantial risk of injury,
loss or damage to the ocean shore.
(3) An order under subsection (2) of this section:
(a) May be entered without prior notice or hearing.
(b) Shall be served upon the person by personal service or by registered or certified mail.
(c) Shall state that a hearing will be held on the order  if a written request for hearing is filed
by the person subject to the order within 10 days after receipt of the order.
(d) Shall not be stayed during the pendency of a hearing conducted under subsection (4) of this
section.
(4) If a person subject to an order under subsection (2) of this section files  a timely demand for
hearing, the director shall hold a contested case hearing according  to the applicable provisions of
ORS chapter 183. If the person fails to request a hearing, the order shall be entered as a final  order
upon prima facie case made on the record of the department.
(5) Neither the director nor any duly authorized representative of the department shall  be liable
for any damages a  person may sustain as a result of a cease and desist order issued under sub-
section (2) of this section.
Enrolled House Bill 2925 (HB 2925-A) Page 5
(6) The state and local police shall cooperate in the enforcement of any order  issued under
subsection (2) of this section and shall require no further authority or warrant in  executing or en-
forcing such order. If any person fails to comply with an  order issued under subsection (2) of this
section, the circuit court of the  county in which the violation occurred or is threatened shall compel
compliance with the director’s order in the same manner as with an order of that court.
(7) As used in  this section, “violation” means making an improvement on property within the
ocean shore without a permit or in a manner  contrary to the conditions set out in a permit issued
under ORS 390.650  or section 3 of this 2025 Act .
SECTION 7.  ORS 390.666 is amended to read:
390.666. If  the State Parks and Recreation Director finds that a person or governmental body
holding a permit issued under ORS 390.650 or section 3 of this  2025 Act is making an improvement
on property within the ocean shore contrary to the conditions set out in the  permit, the director
may revoke, suspend  or refuse to renew such permit. The director may revoke a permit only after
giving notice and opportunity for a hearing  as provided in ORS 183.415 to 183.430, 183.440 to 183.460
and 183.470.
SECTION 8.  ORS 390.725 is amended to read:
390.725. (1) Removal of natural products such as fish or  wildlife, agates or small amounts of
driftwood from a state recreation area as defined  in ORS 390.605 for personal, noncommercial use
is not subject to the provisions of ORS 390.650  or section 3 of this 2025 Act .
(2) The collection of  natural products for the purpose of trade, sale or resale shall be subject
to the  permit provisions and standards of ORS 390.650 and 390.655  or section 3 of this 2025 Act .
Permits shall provide  for the payment of just compensation by the permittee as provided by rule
adopted under subsection (4) of this section.
(3) No archaeological object associated with an archaeological site, as those terms  are defined
in ORS 358.905, shall be removed from the ocean shore except  as provided in ORS 358.920 and
390.235.
(4) Rules  or permits shall be made or granted by the State Parks and Recreation Department
only after consultation  with the State Fish and Wildlife Commission, the State Department of
Geology  and Mineral Industries and the Department of State Lands. Rules and permits shall contain
provisions necessary to protect the areas  from any use, activity or practice inimicable to the con-
servation of natural resources or public recreation.
(5) The terms, royalty and duration of a permit under this section are  at the discretion of the
State Parks and Recreation Department. A permit is  revocable at any time in the discretion of the
department without liability to the permittee.
(6) Whenever the issuance of a permit  under this section will affect lands owned privately, the
State Parks and Recreation Department shall withhold the issuance of such  permit until such time
as the permittee shall have  obtained an easement, license or other written authorization from the
private owner, which easement, license or other written authority must  meet the approval of the
department, except as to the compensation to be paid to the private owner.
SECTION 9. Section 3 of this 2025 Act and the amendments to ORS 390.650 by section 1
of this  2025 Act apply to applications for a permit submitted to the State Parks and Recre-
ation Department on or after the effective date of this 2025 Act.
Enrolled House Bill 2925 (HB 2925-A) Page 6
Passed by House June 19, 2025
..................................................................................
Timothy G. Sekerak, Chief Clerk of House
..................................................................................
Julie Fahey, Speaker of House
Passed by Senate June 23, 2025
..................................................................................
Rob Wagner, President of Senate
Received by Governor:
........................M.,........................................................., 2025
Approved:
........................M.,........................................................., 2025
..................................................................................
Tina Kotek, Governor
Filed in Office of Secretary of State:
........................M.,........................................................., 2025
..................................................................................
Tobias Read, Secretary of State
Enrolled House Bill 2925 (HB 2925-A) Page 7