1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2023 Regular Session
Senate Bill 126
Printed pursuant to  Senate Interim Rule 213.28 by order of the President of the Senate in conformance with pre-
session filing rules,  indicating neither advocacy nor opposition on the part of the President (at the request
of Senate Interim Committee on Energy and Environment)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Requires State Department  of Energy to work with stakeholders to identify areas of inquiry
regarding energy and energy use in this state, develop research options and convene advisory  group
to develop recommendations and benchmarks around energy and energy use in this state.
Directs department to produce report  with final set of recommendations and submit report to
Governor and appropriate interim committees of Legislative Assembly no later  than September 15,
2024.
Takes effect on 91st day following adjournment sine die.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to the use of energy in this state; and prescribing an effective date.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The State Department of Energy shall:
(a) Work and consult  with stakeholders to identify areas of inquiry regarding energy and
energy use in this state that, if  researched and analyzed, could provide important and useful
information, data or datasets as a resource for the Legislative Assembly or Governor.  The
stakeholders must  represent a diverse range of interests, expertise and education,
socioeconomic communities and geographic areas of the state;
(b) Develop research options using  the areas of inquiry identified under paragraph (a) of
this subsection and in consultation with federal and  state agencies that oversee or have ex-
pertise in the areas of inquiry identified under paragraph (a) of this subsection; and
(c) Convene  an advisory group to develop a set of recommendations and benchmarks
around energy and energy use in this state using  the research options developed under par-
agraph (b) of this subsection.
(2)(a) The department shall produce a report that consolidates a final set of recommen-
dations around energy and energy use in this state. The report must include:
(A) A final set of recommendations and background information regarding the  work and
decision-making that led to the final set of recommendations;
(B) The areas of inquiry  identified under subsection (1)(a) of this section and background
information regarding the work that led to the areas of inquiry;
(C) The research options developed under subsection (1)(b) of this section and background
information regarding the work that led to the research options; and
(D) The  set of recommendations and benchmarks developed by the advisory group under
subsection (1)(c) of this section and background information regarding the work that led to
the set of recommendations.
(b) The department shall submit the report  produced under paragraph (a) of this sub-
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2190
SB 126
1
2
3
4
5
6
section to the Governor and  the appropriate interim committees of the Legislative Assembly
in the manner provided under ORS 192.245 no later than September 15, 2024.
SECTION 2.
Section 1 of this 2023 Act is repealed on January 2, 2025.
SECTION 3. This 2023 Act takes effect on the 91st day after the date on  which the 2023
regular session of the Eighty-second Legislative Assembly adjourns sine die.
[2]