1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
81st OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2021 Regular Session
House Bill 3240
Sponsored by Representatives STARK, CLEM
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Requires Department of  Consumer and Business Services to map wildfire risk and to develop
appropriate fire protection standards within state building code for residential structures based on
fire risk identified  in maps. Requires department and Oregon State University College of Forestry
to report to interim committee of  Legislative Assembly on updates to maps and state building code
not later than September 15, 2021.
Declares emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to fire mapping for construction of structures; and declaring an emergency.
Whereas fire hardening for residential structures can play an important  role in preventing loss
of life and property; and
Whereas the application of fire-hardening standards should be based  on research-based mapping
that is electronically available to the public; and
Whereas the state building code is the appropriate location for fire-hardening standards; and
Whereas building code standards in this state should be predictable and consistently applied;
and
Whereas builders and purchasers of homes  need to know which project-specific fire-hardening
standard applies in each risk category before beginning the design and development process; and
Whereas for the purposes of fire hardening residential structures in this  state, the Department
of Consumer and Business Services in partnership with Oregon State University should be  required
to establish and maintain statewide maps identifying categories  of wildfire risk to enable protection
of life and property in areas of this state that are prone to wildfire; now, therefore,
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
Section 2 of this 2021 Act is added to and made a part of ORS chapter 455.
SECTION 2. (1) The Department of Consumer and Business Services shall develop  and
maintain statewide maps identifying categories of wildfire risk for the purpose of  applying
appropriate construction  standards to reduce and mitigate the risk of destructive fires in and
around residential structures.
(2) In developing and maintaining the maps required under  subsection (1) of this section,
the department shall engage the Oregon State University College of Forestry and  affected
local governments  and shall make the maps available in an appropriate electronic format
that is accessible at  little or no expense to the public. The department may enter into an
agreement with the university  or with a local government under ORS 190.110 for any services
required to develop and maintain the maps described in this section.
(3) The department shall update the state building code  to require appropriate fire pro-
tection standards for residential structures, based on the  fire risk identified in the maps the
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 3181
HB 3240
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
department develops and maintains under this section. The code must contain separate and
appropriate fire protection standards for at least three levels of risk.
SECTION 3.
Not later than September 15,  2021, the Department of Consumer and Busi-
ness Services and the Oregon State University  College of Forestry shall report to an appro-
priate interim committee of  the Legislative Assembly in the manner provided under ORS
192.245 concerning progress on developing and maintaining the maps and updates to the state
building code required under section 2 of this 2021 Act.
SECTION 4. This 2021 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the  public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is  declared to exist, and this 2021 Act takes effect
on its passage.
[2]