1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2026 Regular Session
House Bill 4062
Introduced and  printed pursuant to House Rule 12.00. Presession filed (at the request of House Interim Committee
on Economic Development, Small Business, and Trade for Representative Daniel Nguyen)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act would have Business Oregon look at its programs and try to streamline  them.
(Flesch Readability Score: 73.1).
Requires the Director of the Oregon Business Development Department to evaluate  the pro-
grams administered by the department and provide recommendations for streamlining them.
Declares an emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to evaluating Business Oregon programs; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
In the course of preparing  the Oregon Business Development Department’s
budget for the 2027-2029 biennium, the Director of the Oregon  Business Development De-
partment or the director’s designees shall:
(1) Evaluate the  effectiveness of the programs administered by the department based on
the number of applications, actual use and anticipated need;
(2) Identify application requirements  that the various department programs have in
common, and, to the greatest extent possible, make the requirements  uniform across all
applications required for the programs  administered under all divisions of the department;
and
(3) Make recommendations for:
(a) Consolidating department programs that are similar to or duplicative of each other;
(b) Eliminating department programs that have few or no beneficiaries;
(c) Annexing to department  programs similar programs administered by other state
agencies; and
(d) Separating specific  functions or divisions from the department and rehousing them
in more appropriate state agencies or establishing them as stand-alone bodies.
SECTION 2.
This 2026 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist,  and this 2026 Act takes effect
on its passage.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 197