1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
80th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2020 Regular Session
House Bill 4131
Sponsored by Representatives PILUSO, PRUSAK, NERON, BYNUM, HELT, SANCHEZ, Senator FREDERICK;
Representatives ALONSO LEON, BARKER,  DOHERTY, GORSEK, HELM, HOLVEY, KENY-GUYER, LEIF,
LIVELY, MEEK, NOSSE,  POWER, SCHOUTEN, SOLLMAN, WILDE, WILLIAMS, Senators BEYER, BOLES,
DEMBROW, GELSER, HANSELL, KNOPP, MANNING JR, PROZANSKI,  ROBLAN, THATCHER, THOMSEN,
WAGNER (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced.
Directs Oregon Criminal Justice Commission to establish,  in collaboration with Department of
Corrections, Family Preservation Project pilot program at Coffee Creek Correctional Facility. Pro-
vides that program shall be administered by YWCA of Greater Portland. Specifies goals of  program
and services that may  be provided. Requires commission to perform analysis of program and report
results of analysis  to Legislative Assembly beginning September 15, 2022, and every two years
thereafter. Appropriates moneys  to Oregon Criminal Justice Commission for distribution to YWCA
of Greater Portland for purposes of program. Sunsets program on January 1, 2027.
Declares emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to the Family Preservation Project; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1)(a) The  Oregon Criminal Justice Commission, in collaboration with the
Department of Corrections, shall establish the Family Preservation Project pilot program at
the Coffee Creek Correctional Facility.
(b) The program shall be administered by  the YWCA of Greater Portland and be located
within the facility.
(2) The goals of the program include:
(a) Providing services that increase protective  factors within families, create self-efficacy
in parents and lead to successful parenting upon reentry;
(b) Reducing the trauma experienced by children of incarcerated parents;
(c) Improving social-emotional  and educational outcomes for the children of incarcerated
parents;
(d) Increasing successful reentry of incarcerated parents  and reunification with families;
(e) Reducing the likelihood that children of incarcerated parents enter the justice system;
and
(f) Reducing recidivism.
(3)(a)(A) The program may provide services to  parents serving sentences of incarceration
at Coffee Creek Correctional Facility, children of the parents and caregivers of  the children,
that the program  determines to be eligible, as provided in subparagraph (B) of this para-
graph.
(B) The program shall collaborate with  the Department of Corrections and, if a child is
in the care and custody of the  Department of Human Services, with the Department of Hu-
man Services, to determine  the eligibility of the individuals described in subparagraph (A)
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 181
HB 4131
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
of this paragraph.
(b) The services  provided under this section must be individualized, targeted, culturally
appropriate, gender-responsive, trauma-informed and, when delivered to children in  the care
and custody  of the Department of Human Services, determined in collaboration with the
Department of Human Services.
(c) Services provided under this section may include, but are not limited to:
(A) Therapeutic visitations;
(B) Biopsychosocial assessments and interventions;
(C) Psycho-educational and support groups;
(D) Intensive transition planning;
(E) Parenting support and education;
(F) Caregiver support;
(G) Juvenile and family law support;
(H) Communication support; and
(I) Lectures and speaker series.
(4) The YWCA of Greater Portland shall contribute to the program:
(a) Practitioners who have at least  a master’s degree with specific training in family
systems, adult and children’s mental health and trauma;
(b) Tracking of outcome measurements of the program;
(c) Community partnerships;
(d) Family housing opportunities; and
(e) Domestic violence and sexual assault victim support and services.
(5) The Department of Corrections shall contribute to the program:
(a) Training required to obtain contractor identification, keys  and access to information
technology systems and support;
(b) Adequate office space to house all program staff;
(c) Adequate designated classroom space;
(d) Adequate space to hold monthly speaker series meetings;
(e) A child-friendly space for therapeutic visitation twice a month;
(f) A designated person to act as a liaison between Coffee  Creek Correctional Facility and
the YWCA of Greater Portland; and
(g) The opportunity for quarterly team program meetings  to establish and review proto-
cols and procedures of the program.
(6) The commission shall contribute to the program:
(a) Research and analysis support, including  the evaluation described in subsection (8)
of this section; and
(b) The collection of data, in collaboration with the  program, concerning maternal
incarceration.
(7) The commission, the  Department of Corrections and representatives of the program
shall meet quarterly with other state agencies, as determined by the commission, Depart-
ment of Corrections or program and including but not  limited to the Department of Human
Services, the Oregon Health Authority and the Department of Education,  to discuss and
provide updates concerning the implementation and outcomes of the program.
(8) No later than September 15, 2022, and every  two years thereafter, the commission, in
consultation with the YWCA of Greater Portland and the Department  of Corrections, shall
[2]
HB 4131
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
evaluate the effectiveness of the program  described in this section and shall report the re-
sults of the analysis to the Legislative Assembly in the manner provided in ORS 192.245.
SECTION 2.
In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there  is appropri-
ated to the Oregon Criminal Justice Commission, for the biennium beginning July 1,  2019,
out of the General Fund, the  amount of $650,000, for distribution to the YWCA of Greater
Portland to carry out the provisions of section 1 of this 2020 Act.
SECTION 3. Section 1 of this 2020 Act is repealed on January 1, 2027.
SECTION 4. This 2020 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist,  and this 2020 Act takes effect
on its passage.
[3]