1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
79th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2017 Regular Session
House Bill 2449
Sponsored by Representative PARRISH (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Prohibits expenditure of legislative branch funds  to support partisan caucus offices. Allocates
savings equally to legislative member service and supply accounts.  Authorizes members to pool ad-
ditional moneys to fund additional support, policy or communications staff  to support issue-based
caucuses. Authorizes presiding officers to distribute unexpended funds among statutory committees.
Declares emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to funding of legislative offices; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of any law to the contrary that relates
to the financial administration of legislative branch offices and agencies,  no amount may be
appropriated, allocated or otherwise expended to support partisan caucus offices, except that:
(a) Legislators may continue to meet based on party affiliation;
(b) Moneys otherwise allocable to  caucus offices may be allocated to member service and
supply accounts established pursuant to Senate and House Rules; and
(c) Members  may pool service and supply account moneys together to fund additional
support, policy or communications staff to support issue-based caucuses.
(2) Moneys not expended under subsection (1) of this section may be allocated by  the
President of the Senate and the Speaker  of the House of Representatives among the statu-
tory committees of the Legislative Assembly.
SECTION 2.
This 2017 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the  public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is  declared to exist, and this 2017 Act takes effect
on its passage.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2927