1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 3322
Sponsored by Representative JAVADI, Senator WEBER
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act lets a minor who is at  least 14 years old ask the court to change the parenting
time of a parent who has abused the child. (Flesch Readability Score: 75.6).
Creates a procedure for a minor who is at least 14 years old to intervene and move  the court
to suspend or terminate the parenting time of parent against whom  the Department of Human Ser-
vices has substantiated an allegation of abuse.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to parenting time.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
Section 2 of this 2025 Act is added to and made a part of ORS chapter 109.
SECTION 2. (1) A child who is 14 years of age or older and the subject of a parenting time
order may, in accordance with ORCP 27 A, file  a motion for intervention with the court
having jurisdiction over the parenting time order and move the  court to suspend or termi-
nate the parenting time order.
(2) The court may suspend or terminate a  parent’s parenting time with the child if the
court finds, after a hearing described in subsection (3) of this section, that:
(a) The Department of Human Services has substantiated an allegation  of abuse against
the child’s parent; and
(b) The court determines that suspension or termination of the parent’s parenting  time
with the child is in the child’s best interests.
(3)(a) Prior to the entry  of an order suspending or terminating a parent’s parenting time
under this section:
(A) The court shall take testimony from a Department of Human Services  child welfare
caseworker familiar with the substantiated allegation of abuse against the parent; and
(B) The court may, on its own motion or on the motion of the  child, take testimony from
or confer with the child or other children  in the child’s household and may exclude from the
conference the child’s parents or other  persons if the court determines that such action
would be likely to be in the best interests of the child.
(b) If the court excludes a  parent or other person from a conference under this section,
the court shall permit an attorney for each party to attend the conference and question the
child, and the conference shall be reported.
(4) If the court has suspended or  terminated a parent’s parenting time with a child for
reasons described in this  section, the court may not grant the parent future parenting time
until the parent has shown that  the reasons for the suspension or termination are resolved
and that reinstated parenting time is in the best interests of the child.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 4103
HB 3322
1
[2]