1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 9
Sponsored by Senator  NASH, Representatives EDWARDS, LEVY B, SMITH G; Senator MCLANE, Representatives
BREESE-IVERSON, OWENS
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act says that the DMV should prioritize drive tests offered in rural Oregon to folks
who live in rural Oregon. (Flesch Readability Score: 60.6).
Directs the field offices of the  Department of Transportation located in rural counties to prior-
itize requests for drive tests when the request is from an  applicant who lives in rural Oregon or
within 50 miles of the field office.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to taking the drive test.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
Section 2 of this 2025 Act is added to and made a part of the Oregon Vehicle
Code.
SECTION 2. (1) As used in this section:
(a) “Drive test” means a test that requires an actual demonstration of driving ability.
(b) “Rural Oregon” means Baker, Clatsop, Crook, Curry, Gilliam, Grant, Harney,  Hood
River, Jefferson, Klamath, Lake, Malheur,  Morrow, Sherman, Tillamook, Umatilla, Union,
Wallowa, Wasco and Wheeler Counties.
(2) At field offices of the Department of Transportation located in rural counties,  from
among the applicants who request a drive test in rural Oregon, the department shall prior-
itize requests from applicants whose residence address is located:
(a) In the same county as the field office; or
(b) Within 50 miles of the field office.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 4660