83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Enrolled
House Bill 3022
Introduced and printed pursuant to House  Rule 12.00. Presession filed (at the request of Governor
Tina Kotek for Employment Department)
CHAPTER .................................................
AN ACT
Relating to information collected by state agencies; creating  new provisions; amending ORS 25.793,
137.924, 314.840, 316.168, 656.506 and 657B.150; and prescribing an effective date.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.  ORS 314.840 is amended to read:
314.840. (1) The Department of Revenue may:
(a) Furnish any taxpayer, representative  authorized to represent the taxpayer under ORS
305.239 or person designated by the taxpayer under ORS 305.193,  upon request of the taxpayer,
representative or designee, with a copy of the taxpayer’s income tax return filed with  the depart-
ment for  any year, or with a copy of any report filed by the taxpayer in connection with the return,
or with any other information the department considers necessary.
(b) Publish lists of taxpayers who are entitled to unclaimed tax refunds.
(c) Publish statistics so classified as to prevent the identification of  income or any particulars
contained in any report or return.
(d) Disclose a taxpayer’s name, address, telephone number, refund  amount, amount due, Social
Security number, employer identification number or other taxpayer identification number to the  ex-
tent necessary in connection with collection activities or the processing and mailing of correspond-
ence or of forms for  any report or return required in the administration of any local tax under ORS
305.620 or any law imposing a tax upon or measured by net income.
(2) The department  also may disclose and give access to information described in ORS 314.835
to:
(a) The Governor of the State of Oregon or the authorized representative of the Governor  with
respect to an individual who is designated as being  under consideration for appointment or reap-
pointment to an office or  for employment in the office of the Governor. The information disclosed
shall be confined to whether the individual:
(A) Has filed returns with respect to the taxes imposed by ORS  chapter 316 for those of not
more than the three  immediately preceding years for which the individual was required to file an
Oregon individual income tax return.
(B) Has failed to pay any tax within 30 days  from the date of mailing of a deficiency notice or
otherwise respond to a deficiency notice within 30 days of its mailing.
(C) Has  been assessed any penalty under the Oregon personal income tax laws and the nature
of the penalty.
(D) Has been or is under investigation for possible criminal  offenses under the Oregon personal
income tax laws. Information disclosed  pursuant to this paragraph shall be used only for the purpose
Enrolled House Bill 3022 (HB 3022-INTRO) Page 1
of making the appointment,  reappointment or decision to employ or not to employ the individual in
the office of the Governor.
(b) An officer or employee of the Oregon Department of Administrative  Services duly authorized
or employed to prepare revenue estimates, or a  person contracting with the Oregon Department of
Administrative Services to prepare revenue estimates, in the preparation  of revenue estimates re-
quired for  the Governor’s budget under ORS 291.201 to 291.224, or required for submission to the
Emergency Board or the Joint Interim Committee on Ways  and Means, or if the Legislative As-
sembly is in session, to the Joint Committee on Ways and Means,  and to the Legislative Revenue
Officer or Legislative Fiscal Officer under ORS 291.342, 291.348 and 291.445. The Department of
Revenue shall disclose and give access to the information described in ORS 314.835 for  the purposes
of this paragraph only if:
(A) The request for information is made in writing,  specifies the purposes for which the request
is made and is signed by an  authorized representative of the Oregon Department of Administrative
Services. The form for  request for information shall be prescribed by the Oregon Department of
Administrative Services and approved by the Director of the Department of Revenue.
(B) The officer, employee or  person receiving the information does not remove from the premises
of the Department of Revenue any materials that would reveal the  identity of a personal or corpo-
rate taxpayer.
(c) The Commissioner of Internal Revenue  or authorized representative, for tax administration
and compliance purposes only.
(d) For tax administration and compliance purposes,  the proper officer or authorized represen-
tative of any of the following entities that has or is  governed by a provision of law that meets the
requirements of any applicable provision of the Internal Revenue Code as to confidentiality:
(A) A state;
(B) A city, county or other political subdivision of a state;
(C) The District of Columbia; or
(D) An association established exclusively to provide services to federal, state or local taxing
authorities.
(e) The Multistate Tax Commission or  its authorized representatives, for tax administration and
compliance purposes only.  The Multistate Tax Commission may make the information available to
the Commissioner of Internal Revenue or the  proper officer or authorized representative of any
governmental entity described in and meeting the qualifications of paragraph (d) of this subsection.
(f) The Attorney General, assistants and employees in the Department of  Justice, or other legal
representative of the State of Oregon,  to the extent the department deems disclosure or access
necessary  for  the performance of the duties of advising or representing the department pursuant to
ORS 180.010 to 180.240 and the tax laws of the state.
(g) Employees of the State of Oregon, other than of  the Department of Revenue or Department
of Justice, to the extent the department deems disclosure or access necessary for such employees
to perform their duties under contracts or agreements between the department  and any other de-
partment, agency or subdivision  of the State of Oregon, in the department’s administration of the
tax laws.
(h) Other persons, partnerships, corporations and other legal  entities, and their employees, to
the extent the department deems disclosure  or access necessary for the performance of such others’
duties under contracts or agreements between the department and such legal  entities, in the
department’s administration of the tax laws.
(i) The Legislative Revenue  Officer or authorized representatives upon compliance with ORS
173.850. Such officer or representative shall not  remove from the premises of the department any
materials that would reveal the identity of any taxpayer or any other person.
(j) The Department of Consumer and  Business Services, to the extent the department requires
such information to determine whether it is appropriate to  adjust those workers’ compensation
benefits the amount of which is based pursuant  to ORS chapter 656 on the amount of wages or
earned income received by an individual.
Enrolled House Bill 3022 (HB 3022-INTRO) Page 2
(k) Any agency of the State of Oregon, or any person, or any  officer or employee of such agency
or person to whom disclosure or access is given by  state law and not otherwise referred to in this
section, including but not limited to the Secretary of State as Auditor  of Public Accounts under
Article VI, section 2, of  the Oregon Constitution; the Department of Human Services pursuant to
ORS 412.094; the Division  of Child Support of the Department of Justice and district attorney re-
garding cases for which they are providing support enforcement services  under ORS 25.080; the
State Board of Tax Practitioners, pursuant to ORS  673.710; and the Oregon Board of Accountancy,
pursuant to ORS 673.415.
(L) The  Director of the Department of Consumer and Business Services to determine that a
person complies  with ORS chapter 656 and the Director of the Employment Department to determine
that a person complies with ORS  [ chapter 657 ] chapters 657 and 657B , the following employer in-
formation:
(A) Identification numbers.
(B) Names and addresses.
(C) Inception date as employer.
(D) Nature of business.
(E) Entity changes.
(F) Date of last payroll.
(m) The Director of the Oregon Health Authority to determine  that a person has the ability to
pay for care that includes services provided by  the Oregon State Hospital, or the Oregon Health
Authority to collect any unpaid cost of care as provided by ORS chapter 179.
(n) Employees of the Employment Department:
[(A) To the extent the  Department of Revenue deems disclosure or access to information on a
combined tax report filed under ORS 316.168 is necessary to performance  of their duties in adminis-
tering the tax imposed by ORS chapter 657; or ]
[(B) For the purpose of detecting the occurrence of identity theft or fraud  through the examination
of the following taxpayer particulars: ]
(A) To the extent the  Department of Revenue deems that the disclosure of or access to
information on a combined tax report filed under ORS 316.168, an annual report filed under
ORS 316.202 or a return filed under 314.360 is necessary  for the performance of the
department’s duties in administering and enforcing the tax imposed by ORS chapter 657  and
the family and medical leave insurance program under ORS chapter 657B; or
(B) To the extent the Department of Revenue deems that the disclosure of  or access to
the information is helpful for the performance of the department’s duties  in administering
and enforcing the tax imposed by ORS chapter 657 and  the family and medical leave insur-
ance program under ORS chapter 657B and for detecting the occurrence  of identity theft or
fraud through the examination of the following taxpayer particulars:
(i) Individual taxpayer identification number.
(ii) Name, address and date of birth.
(iii) Employer name, employer identification number and amount of wages paid.
(iv) Self-employment income amount and source.
(v) Other particulars of the return as defined in ORS 314.835, at the  discretion of the Director
of the Department of Revenue, on a case-by-case basis.
(o) The State Fire Marshal to assist the  State Fire Marshal in carrying out duties, functions and
powers  under  ORS 453.307 to 453.414, the employer or agent name, address, telephone number and
standard industrial classification, if available.
(p) Employees of  the Department of State Lands or State Treasurer for the purposes of returning
unclaimed property and identifying, locating  and publishing lists of taxpayers entitled to unclaimed
refunds under ORS 98.302 to 98.436.
(q) In addition to the disclosure allowed under ORS 305.225, state  or local law enforcement
agencies to assist in the investigation or prosecution of the following criminal activities:
Enrolled House Bill 3022 (HB 3022-INTRO) Page 3
(A) Mail theft of a check, in which case  the information that may be disclosed shall be limited
to the stolen document, the name, address and taxpayer identification number of  the payee, the
amount of the check and the date printed on the check.
(B) The counterfeiting, forging or  altering of a check submitted by a taxpayer to the Department
of Revenue or issued by the Department of Revenue to a taxpayer, in  which case the information
that may be disclosed shall be limited to the counterfeit, forged or altered document, the  name, ad-
dress and taxpayer identification number of  the payee, the amount of the check, the date printed
on the check and the altered name and address.
(r) The United States Postal Inspection Service  or a federal law enforcement agency, including
but not limited to  the United States Department of Justice, to assist in the investigation of the fol-
lowing criminal activities:
(A) Mail theft of a check, in which case the  information that may be disclosed shall be limited
to the stolen document,  the name, address and taxpayer identification number of the payee, the
amount of the check and the date printed on the check.
(B) The counterfeiting, forging or  altering of a check submitted by a taxpayer to the Department
of Revenue or issued by  the Department of Revenue to a taxpayer, in which case the information
that may be  disclosed shall be limited to the counterfeit, forged or altered document, the name, ad-
dress and taxpayer identification number of the payee, the amount of  the check, the date printed
on the check and the altered name and address.
(s) The United States  Financial Management Service, for purposes of facilitating the offsets de-
scribed in ORS 305.612.
(t) A municipal corporation of this state for purposes of assisting the municipal corporation in
the administration of a tax of the municipal corporation that is imposed  on or measured by income,
wages or net earnings from self-employment. Any disclosure under this paragraph may be  made only
pursuant to a written agreement between the Department of Revenue and the  municipal corporation
that ensures the confidentiality of the information disclosed.
(u) A consumer reporting agency, to the extent necessary to  carry out the purposes of ORS
314.843.
(v) The Public Employees Retirement Board,  to the extent necessary to carry out the purposes
of ORS 238.372  to 238.384, and to any public employer, to the extent necessary to carry out the
purposes of ORS 237.635 (3) and 237.637 (2).
(w) The Secretary  of State for the purpose of initiating or supporting a recommendation under
ORS 60.032 (3) or  63.032 (3) to administratively dissolve a corporation or limited liability company
that the Director  of the Department of Revenue determines has failed to comply with applicable tax
laws of the state.
(x)(A) A multijurisdictional information sharing organization formed with oversight by  the
Internal Revenue Service to combat identity theft and fraud, if the Department of Revenue is a
member of the organization; and
(B) Tax preparation software vendors that are members of an organization described in  subpar-
agraph (A) of this paragraph, if information  described in ORS 314.835 is shared for the purpose of
investigating industry leads of potential identity theft or fraud.
(y) The State Treasurer, for the  purpose of providing employer responses, as indicated on annual
withholding reports submitted to the Department of Revenue, about whether an employer offers a
qualified retirement savings plan as listed in ORS 178.215.
(z) The Oregon  529 Savings Board, for the purpose of facilitating the establishment of accounts
by personal income taxpayers under ORS 178.335 within the Oregon 529  Savings Network through
the use of income tax return forms.
(3)(a) Each officer or employee of the department and each person described  or referred to in
subsection (2)(a), (b), (f) to (L), (n) to (q)  or (w) of this section to whom disclosure or access to the
tax information  is given under subsection (2) of this section or any other provision of state law,
prior to beginning employment or the performance  of duties involving such disclosure or access,
shall be advised in writing of the provisions of ORS  314.835 and 314.991, relating to penalties for the
Enrolled House Bill 3022 (HB 3022-INTRO) Page 4
violation of ORS 314.835, and shall as a condition of employment or performance of  duties execute
a certificate for the department, in a form prescribed by the department, stating in substance  that
the person has read these provisions of law, that  the person has had them explained and that the
person is aware of the penalties for the violation of ORS 314.835.
(b) The disclosure authorized in subsection (2)(r) of this section shall be made only after  a
written agreement has been entered into  between the Department of Revenue and the person de-
scribed in subsection (2)(r) of this  section to whom disclosure or access to the tax information is
given, providing that:
(A) Any information described in ORS  314.835 that is received by the person pursuant to sub-
section (2)(r) of this section  is confidential information that may not be disclosed, except to the ex-
tent necessary to  investigate or prosecute the criminal activities described in subsection (2)(r) of
this section;
(B) The information shall be protected  as confidential under applicable federal and state laws;
and
(C) The United States Postal Inspection Service or the federal  law enforcement agency shall
give notice to the Department of  Revenue of any request received under the federal Freedom of
Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, or other federal law relating to the disclosure of information.
(4) The  Department of Revenue may recover the costs of furnishing the information described
in subsection (2)(L), (m) and (o) to (q) of this section from the respective agencies.
SECTION 2.  ORS 316.168 is amended to read:
316.168. (1) Except as otherwise provided by  law, every employer subject to the provisions of
ORS 316.162 to 316.221,  320.550 and  656.506 and ORS  [ chapter 657 ] chapters 657 and 657B , or a
payroll-based tax imposed by a mass transit district and administered by  the Department of Revenue
under ORS 305.620, shall make and file a combined quarterly tax and assessment  report upon a form
prescribed by the department.
(2) The report shall be filed with the Department of Revenue on  or before the last day of the
month following the quarter to which the report relates and shall be deemed received on  the date
of mailing, as provided in ORS 305.820.
(3) The report shall be accompanied by payment of any tax or assessment due and  a combined
tax and assessment payment coupon prescribed by the department. The  employer shall indicate on
the coupon the amount of the total payment and the  portions of the payment to be paid to each of
the tax or assessment programs.
(4) The Department of Revenue shall credit the payment to the tax or assessment programs in
the amounts indicated by the employer on the  coupon and shall promptly remit the payments to the
appropriate taxing or assessing body.
(5) If the employer fails to allocate the payment on the coupon, the department shall  allocate
the payment to the proper tax or assessment programs  on the basis of the percentage the payment
bears to the total amount due.
(6) The Department of  Revenue shall distribute copies of the combined quarterly tax and as-
sessment report and the necessary tax or assessment payment information to  each of the agencies
charged with the administration of a tax or assessment covered by the report.
(7) The Department of Revenue, the Employment Department  and the Department of Consumer
and Business Services shall develop  a system of account numbers and assign to each employer a
single account  number representing all of the tax and assessment programs included in the combined
quarterly tax and assessment report.
SECTION 3.  ORS 656.506 is amended to read:
656.506. (1) As used in this section:
(a) “Employee” means a subject worker as defined in ORS 656.005 (28).
(b) “Employer” means a subject employer as defined in ORS 656.005 (13).
(2) Every employer  shall retain from the moneys earned by all employees an amount determined
by the Director of the Department of Consumer and Business Services for each hour  or part of an
Enrolled House Bill 3022 (HB 3022-INTRO) Page 5
hour the employee is employed and pay the money retained in the manner and at such  intervals as
the director shall specify.
(3) In  addition to all moneys retained under subsection (2) of this section, the director shall as-
sess each employer an amount equal to that assessed pursuant to subsection (2) of  this section. The
assessment must be paid in such manner and at such intervals as the director may specify.
(4) The Department of Consumer and Business  Services shall deposit moneys collected pursuant
to subsections (2) and (3) of this section, and any accrued  cash balances, into the Workers’ Benefit
Fund. Subject to the limitations in subsections (2) and (3) of  this section, the amount of the hourly
assessments provided in subsections (2)  and (3) of this section annually may be adjusted to meet the
needs of the Workers’ Benefit Fund for  the expenditures of the department in carrying out the
department’s functions and duties pursuant  to subsection (7) of this section and ORS 656.445,
656.622, 656.625, 656.628 and 656.630. Factors to be considered in  making such adjustment of the
assessments must include, but not be  limited to, the cash balance as determined by the director and
estimated expenditures and revenues of the Workers’ Benefit Fund.
(5) The Legislative Assembly intends that the department  set rates for the collection of assess-
ments pursuant to subsections (2) and (3) of this section in  a manner so that at the end of the period
for which the rates are effective, the balance  of the Workers’ Benefit Fund is an amount of not less
than 12 months of projected expenditures from the  fund in regard to the department’s functions and
duties under subsection (7) of this section and ORS 656.445,  656.622, 656.625, 656.628 and 656.630, in
a manner that minimizes the volatility of  the rates assessed. If the department determines that the
balance of the fund will fall below the balance required under this subsection,  the department shall
devise and report to the Workers’ Compensation Management-Labor Advisory Committee  a plan to
increase the balance to the required amount. The department may set the assessment  rate at a
higher level if the department determines that a higher rate is  necessary to avoid unintentional
program or benefit reductions in the time  period immediately following the period for which the rate
is being set.
(6) Every employer required to pay the assessments referred to in  this section shall make and
file a report of employee hours worked and amounts due  under this section upon a combined report
form prescribed by the Department of Revenue. The report must be  filed with the Department of
Revenue:
(a) At the times and in the manner prescribed in ORS 316.168 and 316.171; or
(b) Annually as required or allowed pursuant to ORS 316.197 [ or], 657.571 or 657B.150.
(7) There is established a Retroactive Program for  the purpose of providing increased benefits
to claimants or beneficiaries eligible to receive  compensation under the benefit schedules of ORS
656.204, 656.206, 656.208 and 656.210 that are lower than currently being  paid for like injuries.
However, benefits payable under ORS 656.210 may not be  increased by the Retroactive Program for
claimants whose  injury occurred on or after April 1, 1974. Notwithstanding the formulas for com-
puting benefits  provided in ORS 656.204, 656.206, 656.208 and 656.210, the increased benefits payable
under this subsection must be in such amount as the director considers appropriate. The  director
annually shall compute the amount which may be available during  the succeeding year for payment
of such  increased benefits and determine the level of benefits to be paid during such year. If, during
such year,  it is determined by the director that there are insufficient funds to increase benefits to
the level fixed by  the director, the director may reduce the level of benefits payable under this
subsection. The increase in benefits to workers is payable in the first  instance by the insurer or
self-insured employer subject to reimbursement from the  Workers’ Benefit Fund by the director. If
the insurer is a member of the Oregon Insurance  Guaranty Association and becomes insolvent and
the Oregon Insurance Guaranty Association assumes the insurer’s obligations to pay covered claims
of subject workers, including Retroactive Program benefits, the  benefits are payable in the first in-
stance by the Oregon Insurance Guaranty Association, subject to reimbursement  from the Workers’
Benefit Fund by the director.
SECTION 4.
 ORS 657B.150 is amended to read:
Enrolled House Bill 3022 (HB 3022-INTRO) Page 6
657B.150. (1)(a) Except  as otherwise provided in subsections (3) and (4) of this section and ORS
657B.210 (4), all employers and employees shall contribute to the Paid  Family and Medical Leave
Insurance Fund established under ORS 657B.430.
(b) Contributions shall be paid by employers and employees as a percentage of a  total rate de-
termined by the Director of the Employment Department.
(c) The total rate may not exceed one percent of employee wages,  up to a maximum amount in
wages that is equivalent to the Social  Security contribution and benefit base limit established by the
United States Social Security Administration for purposes of the federal  Old-Age, Survivors, and
Disability Insurance program limits pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 430.
(2)(a) Employer contributions shall be paid in  an amount that is equal to 40 percent of the total
rate determined by the director.
(b) An employer shall deduct employee contributions from the wages of each employee in  an
amount that is equal to 60 percent of the total rate determined by the director.
(3) When an employment agency is acting as an employer, the  employer contributions required
under this section shall be the responsibility of the employment agency.
(4)(a) Employers that employ fewer  than 25 employees are not required to pay the employer
contributions under subsection (1) of this section.
(b) If an employer that employs fewer than 25 employees elects to pay the employer  contrib-
utions under subsection (1) of  this section, the employer may apply to receive a grant under ORS
657B.200.
(5) Notwithstanding subsection (1) of this section, an employer  may elect to pay the required
employee contributions, in whole or in part, as an employer-offered benefit.
(6) Subject to ORS 657B.130 (2) and (3), a  self-employed individual who has elected coverage
under ORS 657B.130 (1) shall contribute to the fund, at a rate that may not exceed one  percent of
the individual’s taxable  income, up to a maximum amount that is equivalent to the Social Security
contribution and benefit base limit established by the  United States Social Security Administration
for purposes of the federal Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance program  limits pursuant to
42 U.S.C. 430, as determined by  the director by rule, for a period of not less than three years from
the date that the election becomes effective.
(7) A tribal government that elects coverage under ORS 657B.130 and employees of the tribal
government shall contribute to the fund in contribution amounts and at a rate  that may not exceed
one percent of employee  wages, up to a maximum amount in wages that is equivalent to the Social
Security contribution and benefit base limit established by the United States  Social Security Ad-
ministration for purposes of the federal Old-Age, Survivors, and  Disability Insurance program limits
pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 430, as determined by the director by rule,  for a period of not less than three
years from the date that the election becomes effective.
(8) The director shall set rates for the collection of payroll contributions consistent with  sub-
section (1) of this section and in a manner such that:
(a) At the end of the  period for which the rates are effective, the balance of moneys in the fund
is an amount not less than six months’ worth of projected expenditures from the fund for  perform-
ance of the functions and duties of the director under this chapter; and
(b) The volatility of the contribution rates is minimized.
(9) No later than  December 15 of each year, for purposes of subsections (1)(c), (6) and (7) of this
section, the director shall annually adjust  the maximum amount of employee wages for the calendar
year immediately following to align with the contributions and benefit base limit established  by the
United States Social Security Administration for purposes of the federal  Old-Age, Survivors, and
Disability Insurance program limits pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 430.
(10) The director shall determine on an annual basis the amount of payroll contributions, timing
of payroll contributions and maximum employee contributions sufficient to  finance the costs related
to the provisions of this chapter.
Enrolled House Bill 3022 (HB 3022-INTRO) Page 7
(11) An employer shall hold any moneys collected under this section  in trust for the State of
Oregon  and  for the payment thereof to the Department of Revenue in the manner described in sub-
section (12) of this section.
(12)(a) An  employer shall make and file a combined quarterly report of wages earned and con-
tributions paid under this section on a form prescribed by the Department of Revenue.
(b) The report shall be filed with the Department  of Revenue on or before the last day of the
month following the  quarter to which the report relates and shall be deemed received on the date
of mailing.
(c) The report shall be accompanied by payment  of any contributions due under this section in
a manner determined by the Department of Revenue [ by rule ].
(13) Moneys collected under this  section shall be deposited in the Paid Family and Medical
Leave Insurance Fund established under ORS 657B.430.
(14)(a) If  an employer ceases or discontinues operations or business, or sells out, exchanges or
otherwise disposes of the business or stock of goods, any  payroll contribution payable under this
section is immediately due and payable, and the employer shall, within 10  calendar days, pay the
payroll contribution due. Any person who becomes a successor in interest to the business is liable
for the full amount of the unpaid payroll contribution.
(b) The director shall adopt rules for compliance with this chapter  with regard to contributions
from an employer’s successor in interest.
(15) Benefits may not be denied to a covered individual solely because an employer failed  to
collect or remit the contributions required under this section.
SECTION 5.  ORS 137.924 is amended to read:
137.924. When a defendant is committed to the supervisory authority  of the county pursuant to
ORS 137.124, the supervisory authority shall forward the name, date of birth  and Social Security
number of the defendant to:
(1) The Director of the Employment Department for purposes  of making a determination of el-
igibility under ORS 657.155  and 657B.015;
(2) The Director of the Oregon Health Authority,  or the director’s designee, for the purposes
of suspending any medical assistance as defined in ORS 414.025; and
(3) The Director of Human Services, or the director’s designee, for the  purposes of suspending
any public assistance as defined in ORS 411.010.
SECTION 6.  ORS 25.793 is amended to read:
25.793. (1) Subject to the limitations provided in subsection (2) of this section, the Division  of
Child Support of the Department of Justice may enter  into agreements with other divisions of the
Department of Justice  [or], with the Department of Revenue or with the Employment Department
for the provision of information  reported to the Division of Child Support by an employer pursuant
to ORS 25.790 regarding hiring or rehiring or the engagement  or reengagement of individuals in this
state. The information may be used for purposes other than paternity establishment or child  support
enforcement, including but not limited to debt collection.
(2) Information provided by the division under this section is limited  to information reported
pursuant to ORS 25.790 that has not yet been entered into either:
(a) The statewide  automated data processing and information retrieval system required to be
established and operated by the division under 42 U.S.C. 654a; or
(b) The automated state directory of new hires required to be established by the division  under
42 U.S.C. 653a.
(3) An agreement entered into under this section must include, but is  not limited to, provisions
describing:
(a) How the information is to be reported or transferred from the division;
(b) Fees, reimbursements and other financial responsibilities of  the recipient in exchange for
receipt of the information from the division, not to exceed actual expenses;
(c) Coordination of data systems to facilitate the sharing of the information; and
Enrolled House Bill 3022 (HB 3022-INTRO) Page 8
(d) Such other terms and requirements as are necessary to accomplish the objectives of  the
agreement.
(4) An agreement  entered into under this section is subject to the approval of the Department
of Justice.
SECTION 7. The amendments to ORS 25.793, 137.924,  314.840, 316.168 and 656.506 by
sections 1 to 3, 5 and 6 of this 2025 Act apply to information disclosed and  reports required
on or after January 1, 2023.
SECTION 8. This 2025 Act  takes effect on the 91st day after the date on which the 2025
regular session of the Eighty-third Legislative Assembly adjourns sine die.
Passed by House February 18, 2025
..................................................................................
Timothy G. Sekerak, Chief Clerk of House
..................................................................................
Julie Fahey, Speaker of House
Passed by Senate April 29, 2025
..................................................................................
Rob Wagner, President of Senate
Received by Governor:
........................M.,........................................................., 2025
Approved:
........................M.,........................................................., 2025
..................................................................................
Tina Kotek, Governor
Filed in Office of Secretary of State:
........................M.,........................................................., 2025
..................................................................................
Tobias Read, Secretary of State
Enrolled House Bill 3022 (HB 3022-INTRO) Page 9