1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2679
Sponsored by Representative HUDSON, Senator GOLDEN; Representatives ANDERSEN,  FRAGALA, GAMBA,
LIVELY, Senators PATTERSON, PHAM K, TAYLOR (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: This Act puts limits on the use of  pesticides that have some neonicotinoids in them.
(Flesch Readability Score: 61.8).
Directs the State Department of Agriculture to classify certain pesticides  containing
neonicotinoids as restricted-use. Prohibits  application of restricted-use neonicotinoid pesticides on
residential landscapes, subject to certain exceptions. Becomes operative on January 1, 2027.
Takes effect on the 91st day following adjournment sine die.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to neonicotinoid pesticides; and prescribing an effective date.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
Section 2 of this 2025 Act is added to and made a part of ORS chapter 634.
SECTION 2. (1) As used in this section:
(a) “Invasive invertebrate pest” means  any nonnative invertebrate, including its eggs or
other biological material, that is proven to cause harm to humans, animals, plants, the
economy or the environment.
(b) “Licensed applicator” means a pesticide applicator, noncommercial applicator, public
applicator or trainee that holds a valid license or certificate issued under this chapter.
(c) “Residential landscape”  means ornamental plants, turf and other vegetation adjacent
to a single-unit or multiple-unit residence.
(d) “Restricted neonicotinoid  pesticide” means a pesticide that has been added to the
restricted-use pesticide list pursuant to subsection (2) of this section.
(2)(a) The State Department of Agriculture shall  classify as a restricted-use pesticide any
pesticide that contains a chemical belonging to the neonicotinoid class of  chemicals, includ-
ing acetamiprid, clothianidin, dinotefuran, imidacloprid, nitenpyram, nithiazine, thiacloprid,
thiamethoxam or any other chemical designated by the department as belonging  to the
neonicotinoid class of chemicals.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this  subsection, the department may not classify
as a restricted-use pesticide a  pesticide that contains a chemical belonging to the
neonicotinoid class of chemicals that is labeled for use:
(A) By a veterinarian;
(B) As flea or tick control for domestic animals; or
(C) As a personal care product, including lice treatments.
(3) Except as  provided in subsections (4) and (5) of this section, a person may not apply
a restricted neonicotinoid pesticide to a residential landscape.
(4) Subsection (3) of this section does not apply to the following  applications or uses of
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 676
HB 2679
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
a restricted neonicotinoid pesticide by a licensed applicator:
(a) Application to the exterior of a structure to manage a structural pest.
(b) Any  use pursuant to an emergency permit issued under subsection (5) of this section.
(c) Any use for the management of an invasive invertebrate pest.
(5) Notwithstanding subsection (3) of this section, the department may issue  an emer-
gency permit for the application or use of a restricted neonicotinoid pesticide if  the depart-
ment determines that issuing an emergency permit is necessary to control a pest emergency
affecting ornamental plants, trees or turf.
SECTION 3.
(1) Section 2 of this 2025 Act becomes operative on January 1, 2027.
(2) The  State Department of Agriculture may take any actions before the operative date
specified in subsection (1) of this section that are necessary to enable the department to
exercise, on and after the operative date specified in subsection (1) of this section,  all of the
duties, functions and powers conferred on the department by section 2 of this 2025 Act.
SECTION 4.
This 2025 Act takes effect on the 91st day after the date on  which the 2025
regular session of the Eighty-third Legislative Assembly adjourns sine die.
[2]