1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2727
Sponsored by Representative SCHARF (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act does not allow former legislators to be  hired by certain groups to support pol-
icies. The Act applies to former legislators for  one year after they leave office. (Flesch Readability
Score: 60.8).
Expands restrictions on  post-legislative service activities to prohibit receiving money or other
consideration for advocacy on behalf of a public or private entity for changes in policy or funding
for public or private sector programs or entities.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to limitations on post-legislative service activity; amending ORS 244.045.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 244.045 is amended to read:
244.045. (1) A person who has been a Public Utility Commissioner, the Director  of the Depart-
ment of Consumer and Business  Services, the Administrator of the Division of Financial Regulation,
the administrator  of the Oregon Liquor and Cannabis Commission or the Director of the Oregon
State Lottery may not:
(a) Within one year after the  public official ceases to hold the position become an employee of
or receive any  financial gain, other than reimbursement of expenses, from any private employer
engaged in the activity, occupation or industry over which the former public  official had authority;
or
(b) Within two years after the public official ceases to hold the position:
(A) Be a lobbyist for or appear as a representative before the  agency over which the person
exercised authority as a public official;
(B) Influence or try to influence the actions of the agency; or
(C) Disclose any confidential information gained as a public official.
(2) A person who has been a Deputy Attorney  General or an assistant attorney general may not,
within two years after the person ceases to hold the position, lobby or appear before  an agency that
the person represented while employed by the Department of Justice.
(3) A person who has been the  State Treasurer or the Deputy State Treasurer may not, within
one year after ceasing to hold office:
(a) Accept employment from or be retained by any private entity with whom the office of  the
State Treasurer or the Oregon Investment Council negotiated or to whom  either awarded a contract
providing for payment by the state of at least $25,000 in any single  year during the term of office
of the treasurer;
(b) Accept employment from or be retained by any private entity with whom the office of  the
State Treasurer or the Oregon  Investment Council placed at least $50,000 of investment moneys in
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1586
HB 2727
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
any single year during the term of office of the treasurer; or
(c) Be a lobbyist for an investment institution, manager or consultant, or appear  before the of-
fice of the State Treasurer or Oregon Investment Council as a  representative of an investment in-
stitution, manager or consultant.
(4) A public official who as part of the official’s duties invested public funds may not within two
years after the public official ceases to hold the position:
(a) Be  a lobbyist or appear as a representative before the agency, board or commission for which
the former public official invested public funds;
(b) Influence or try to influence the agency, board or commission; or
(c) Disclose any confidential information gained as a public official.
(5)(a) A person who has been a member of the Department of State Police, who has held a  po-
sition with the  department with the responsibility for supervising, directing or administering pro-
grams relating to gaming by a Native American tribe  or the Oregon State Lottery and who has been
designated by the  Superintendent of State Police by rule may not, within one year after the member
of the Department of State Police ceases to hold the position:
(A) Accept employment from or be retained by or receive any financial gain  related to gaming
from the Oregon State Lottery or any Native American tribe;
(B) Accept employment  from or be retained by or receive any financial gain from any private
employer selling or offering to sell gaming products or services;
(C) Influence or try to influence the actions of the Department of State Police; or
(D) Disclose any confidential information gained as a member of the Department  of State Police.
(b) This subsection does not apply to:
(A) Appointment or employment of a person as an Oregon State Lottery Commissioner or as  a
Tribal Gaming Commissioner or regulatory agent thereof;
(B) Contracting with the Oregon State Lottery as a lottery game retailer;
(C) Financial gain received from personal gaming activities conducted as a private citizen; or
(D) Subsequent employment in any capacity by the Department of State Police.
(c) As used in this subsection, “Native American tribe” means any recognized  Native American
tribe or band of tribes authorized by the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act of October  17, 1988 (Public
Law 100-497), 25 U.S.C. 2701 et seq., to conduct gambling operations on tribal land.
(6) A person who has been a member of the Legislative Assembly may  not, within one year after
ceasing to be a member of the Legislative Assembly, receive money or any other consideration for :
(a) Lobbying as defined in ORS 171.725 ; or
(b) Advocating on behalf of a public or  private entity for changes in policy or funding for
a public or private sector program or entity .
[2]