1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Joint Memorial 7
Sponsored by Representative EVANS (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Urges Congress to pass a law about reproductive health care rights  of women. (Flesch
Readability Score: 63.4).
Urges Congress to pass legislation recognizing that the full spectrum of reproductive health care
is a fundamental right of all women.
JOINT MEMORIAL
To the President of the United States and the Senate and the House of Representatives of the United
States of America, in Congress assembled:
We, your memorialists,  the Eighty-third Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon, in legisla-
tive session assembled, respectfully represent as follows:
Whereas reproductive rights for women and sexual and  reproductive health care have come
under repeated and worsening attack in recent years; and
Whereas in  2022, the United States Supreme Court, in Dobbs v. Jackson Women’s Health Or-
ganization, held that the Constitution of the United States does not confer a right to abortion; and
Whereas the Dobbs decision overturned both Roe v. Wade  (1973) and Planned Parenthood  v.
Casey (1992), returning to the federal and state legislatures  the power to regulate any aspect of
abortion not protected by federal statutory law; and
Whereas significant restrictions on access  to reproductive health care for women now exist
around the country, with many states either banning  abortion outright or placing severe restrictions
on access to the procedure; and
Whereas reproductive rights and sexual and reproductive  health care are neither optional nor
incidental to women’s well-being, but instead are essential aspects of health care  that can dramat-
ically affect women’s lives; and
Whereas ideologically driven policies and funding shifts  that have negatively impacted access
to reproductive health care especially impact low-income women, women of color and the  most vul-
nerable elements of our society; and
Whereas the ability of women to exercise reproductive rights should  never be limited by ability
to pay, gender expression or identity, immigration status, HIV status or race; and
Whereas everyone, including undocumented minors, should have access to safe, legal  and af-
fordable abortion and contraception; and
Whereas all people of all ages and genders should  receive medically accurate information to
make informed choices about their health; now, therefore,
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
That we, the members of the Eighty-third Legislative Assembly, respectfully  urge the Congress
of the United States to pass legislation that recognizes that the full spectrum of reproductive health
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2385
HJM 7
1
2
3
4
5
care is a fundamental right of all women; and be it further
Resolved, That a copy of this memorial shall be sent to  the President of the United States, the
Senate Majority Leader, the Speaker of the House  of Representatives and each member of the
Oregon Congressional Delegation.
[2]