1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
81st OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2021 Regular Session
House Bill 3260
Sponsored by Representatives GOMBERG, SMITH  DB, MARSH, Senator HANSELL (at the request of Association
of Oregon Counties)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced.
Establishes Local Government Technical Assistance Program within  Housing and Community
Services Department. Requires department and Department of  Land Conservation and Development
to enter into intergovernmental agreement  with League of Oregon Cities and Association of Oregon
Counties to develop regional work plans to assist local governments in providing needed housing.
Appropriates funds for program to Housing and Community Services Department.
Declares emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to housing technical assistance for local governments; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) There is established the Local Government Technical Assistance Program
in the Housing and Community Services Department.
(2) The Housing and Community  Services Department and the Department of Land Con-
servation and Development shall enter into an  intergovernmental agreement with the Asso-
ciation of Oregon Counties and the League of Oregon Cities that includes:
(a) Implementation of the program;
(b) Appropriate oversight by the Housing and Community Services Department and  the
Department of Land Conservation and Development;
(c) The roles and responsibilities related to  development of a program work plan, ac-
countability for work progress and fiscal management;
(d) Coordination with the Regional Solutions Program;
(e) Coordination with the existing work of the Housing and Community Services Depart-
ment and the Department of Land Conservation and Development;
(f) Measurable goals, evaluation criteria and metrics; and
(g) Priorities for selecting projects and tasks.
(3) In operating the program the Housing and  Community Services Department, the De-
partment of Land  Conservation and Development, the Association of Oregon Counties and
the League of Oregon Cities shall develop a program work plan.  The program work plan shall
guide the creation of regional work plans by the Association of Oregon  Counties and the
League of Oregon Cities. Actions required by the regional work plans and performed by local
staff may include, but are not limited to:
(a) Advising  and representing local governments in accessing and leveraging resources
such as grants for planning, infrastructure or development;
(b) Assisting local governments in implementing or updating local housing plans;
(c) Creating or evaluating and improving local housing incentive programs;
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 3299
HB 3260
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
(d) Marketing development opportunities to housing developers and housing authorities;
(e) Developing property-specific plans, infrastructure financing  plans and local housing
strategic plans, for adoption by local governments;
(f) Facilitating relationships with developers, lenders, housing authorities and  supportive
housing providers to increase awareness of opportunities to develop all types of housing;
(g) Conducting project feasibility analyses for development-ready sites;
(h) Creating resource  materials for local governments in the region about best practices,
case studies and analyses related to  housing incentives, barrier reduction and facilitation of
housing stakeholders;
(i) Supporting intentional, data-driven approaches to reduce racial disparity  in housing
and social service provision and to achieve greater  parity in housing stability, self-sufficiency
and homeownership for communities of color;
(j) Engaging culturally specific and culturally responsive organizations to ensure  policies
are designed to advance equity and racial justice; and
(k) Engaging local stakeholders, including housing  authorities, community development
corporations, nonprofit housing  developers, employers, social service providers, developers,
community leaders, state agencies and the public, in removing barriers to housing  planning
and development.
SECTION 2.
(1) No later than May 10, 2022, the  Housing and Community Services De-
partment and the  Department of Land Conservation and Development shall report to the
Legislative Assembly or an appropriate interim committee of the Legislative  Assembly in the
manner provided under ORS 192.245 on the interim  work of the Local Government Technical
Assistance Program described in section 1 of this 2021 Act.
(2) No later than December 10, 2022, the Housing and Community Services  Department
and the Department of  Land Conservation and Development shall report to the Legislative
Assembly or an  appropriate interim committee of the Legislative Assembly in the manner
provided under ORS 192.245 on the accomplishments of the Local Government Technical As-
sistance Program described in section 1 of this 2021 Act.
SECTION 3.
In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there  is appropri-
ated to the Housing and  Community Services Department, for the biennium beginning July
1, 2021, out of the General Fund, the amount of $2,500,000, for the costs of the department,
as well as the Department of  Land Conservation and Development, the Association of Oregon
Counties and the League of Oregon Cities for their respective costs  in administering and
operating the Local Government Technical Assistance Program established under section  1
of this 2021 Act.
SECTION 4.
This 2021 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the  public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is  declared to exist, and this 2021 Act takes effect
on its passage.
[2]