1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
80th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2020 Regular Session
House Bill 4091
Sponsored by  Representative BARRETO, Senator FINDLEY; Representatives SMITH DB, STARK (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Establishes Sage-Grouse Mitigation Program In-Lieu Fee Fund. Continuously  appropriates
moneys in fund to  State Department of Fish and Wildlife for supporting efforts to restore, protect,
enhance or increase habitat for sage grouse, including related administrative costs, related research
or assessment activities or insurance for sage-grouse habitat.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to sage-grouse mitigation funding.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Sage-Grouse Mitigation Program In-Lieu Fee Fund is established in
the State Treasury,  separate and distinct from the General Fund. Interest earned by the
Sage-Grouse Mitigation Program In-Lieu Fee Fund shall be credited to the fund. Moneys in
the fund are continuously appropriated to the State Department of Fish and  Wildlife for
supporting efforts to restore, protect,  enhance or increase habitat for sage grouse, including
related administrative costs, related research or assessment activities or insurance  for
sage-grouse habitat.
(2) The fund shall consist of  moneys received by the department as fees in lieu of
compensatory mitigation,  pursuant to department rules adopted to implement the Oregon
Sage-Grouse Action Plan and Executive Order 15-18 issued on September 16, 2015.
(3) Moneys in the fund may, with the  approval of the State Treasurer, be invested in an
investment pool designed  for intermediate-term investment, as provided by ORS 293.701 to
293.857, and the earnings from such investment shall be credited to the fund.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 207