1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Joint Resolution 31
Sponsored by Senator SMITH DB
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The measure asks voters to stop the Governor or state agencies from requiring  persons
to get medical treatments or shots,  unless the Senate and the House pass a law that says the man-
date is okay. The measure asks voters to say yes or no  on this change at the next general election.
(Flesch Readability Score: 60.0).
Proposes an amendment to the Oregon Constitution  to prohibit the Governor or the executive
branch from requiring a medical  procedure or a vaccine or a type of vaccine to be administered to
any individual or class of individuals, unless the Legislative Assembly has enacted a law  that ex-
pressly identifies the medical procedure, vaccine or type of vaccine and the  individuals or classes
of individuals for which the medical procedure or vaccine administration is required.
Refers the proposed amendment to voters for their approval or  rejection at the next regular
general election.
JOINT RESOLUTION
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
PARAGRAPH 1.
 The Constitution of the State of Oregon is amended by creating a new  section
5 to be added to and made a part of Article III, such section to read:
SECTION 5. The Governor  and the executive branch of state government may not re-
quire a medical procedure or a vaccine or type of vaccine to be administered to any individual
or class of individuals unless  the Legislative Assembly has enacted a law that expressly
identifies the medical  procedure, vaccine or type of vaccine and the individuals or classes of
individuals to whom the medical procedure, vaccine or type of vaccine is required to be  ad-
ministered.
PARAGRAPH 2.
The amendment proposed by this resolution shall be submitted to  the
people for their approval or rejection  at the next regular general election held throughout
this state.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2040