1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2023 Regular Session
House Bill 2855
Sponsored by Representative EVANS; Senator PATTERSON (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Establishes Compliance Division within Oregon Department of  Emergency Management to en-
sure compliance with requirements and regulations relating to moneys received from  federal gov-
ernment.
Declares emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to compliance monitoring; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) There is established the Compliance Division as  an administrative divi-
sion of the Oregon  Department of Emergency Management. The Director of the Oregon De-
partment of Emergency Management shall appoint  a compliance officer to lead the division.
The compliance officer serves at  the pleasure of and at the direction of the director. The
director may appoint additional staff to the division as the director deems necessary for the
division to carry out its duties.
(2) The Compliance Division shall:
(a) Ensure that the  department is in compliance with requirements and regulations re-
lating to moneys received from the federal government, including ensuring  compliance by
grantees or subgrantees;
(b) Prepare and maintain documentation related to compliance;
(c) Establish monitoring and reporting requirements as necessary to ensure compliance;
(d) Identify compliance risks and direct and supervise corrective actions  to mitigate such
risks; and
(e) Serve as liaison between the department and federal officials.
(3) Public bodies, as defined in ORS 174.109, shall promptly provide to the Compliance
Division any books, records or other documentation that the division determines to be  nec-
essary to carry out its duties.
SECTION 2.
This 2023 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the  public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is  declared to exist, and this 2023 Act takes effect
on its passage.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 3198