83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Enrolled
Senate Concurrent Resolution 34
Sponsored by Senator WAGNER; Senator MANNING JR
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
(1) This resolution constitutes a  rule of proceeding of the Senate and the House of Represen-
tatives of the Eighty-third Legislative Assembly.
(2) The Senate and the House of Representatives agree to the following  limitations for the 2026
regular session:
(a) Each Senator may request the Office of the Legislative Counsel to prepare, and may  submit
for introduction, no more than two drafts of measures.
(b) Each Representative may request the  Office of the Legislative Counsel to prepare, and may
submit for introduction, no more than two drafts of measures.
(c) Each interim committee of the Senate and each interim committee  of the House of Repre-
sentatives may request  the Office of the Legislative Counsel to prepare, and may submit for intro-
duction, no more than three drafts of measures.
(d) The Governor may request the Office of the Legislative  Counsel to prepare, and may submit
for introduction, no more than three drafts of measures on behalf of the executive branch  of state
government.
(e) The Chief Justice of the Supreme Court may request the Office of the  Legislative Counsel
to prepare, and may  submit for introduction, no more than three drafts of measures on behalf of the
judicial branch of state government.
(3) The limitations on introduction of measures in subsection (2) of this resolution do not  apply
to:
(a) The Joint Committee on Ways and Means, with respect to appropriation or fiscal measures;
(b) Measures requested and approved for introduction by the President of the Senate;
(c) Measures requested and approved for introduction by the House Committee on Rules; or
(d) Measures requested by the Joint Committee on Conduct, the  Senate Committee on Conduct
or the House Committee on Conduct, with respect to matters, procedures, policies  and rules within
the jurisdiction of a committee on conduct as prescribed by rule or statute.
(4) All requests to prepare drafts of measures must be accompanied by a brief summary of the
problem sought to be addressed, the proposed solution to the problem and any other relevant infor-
mation about the proposed measure.
(5) The Senate and the House  of Representatives shall adhere to the following schedule and
deadlines for the 2026 regular session of the Eighty-third Legislative Assembly:
(a) Members, committees, the Governor and  the Chief Justice shall submit requests for drafts
of measures to the Office of the Legislative Counsel on or before 5 p.m. on November 21, 2025.
(b) The Office of the Legislative Counsel shall  deliver drafts of measures to requesters on or
before 5 p.m. on January 9, 2026.
(c) Requesters shall submit  drafts of measures for introduction to the Senate Desk or the House
Desk no later than 5 p.m. on January 16, 2026.
(6) The President of the Senate,  the House Committee on Rules and the Joint Committee on
Ways and Means are not subject to the deadlines described in subsection (5) of this resolution.
Enrolled Senate Concurrent Resolution 34 (SCR 34-INTRO) Page 1
(7) The  Joint Committee on Conduct, the Senate Committee on Conduct and the House Com-
mittee on Conduct are not subject to  the deadlines described in subsection (5) of this resolution with
respect to matters, procedures, policies and rules within the jurisdiction of a committee  on conduct
as prescribed by rule or statute.
(8) Labor negotiations concerning employees of the legislative branch are  not considered legis-
lative deliberations  under Article IV, section 14, of the Oregon Constitution, and shall be conducted
in executive  session under the Oregon Public Meetings laws in conformance with ORS 192.660 (2)(d)
and (3).
(9) The rules  of the Senate and the House of Representatives apply to matters not specified in
this resolution.
Adopted by Senate June 27, 2025
Obadiah Rutledge, Secretary of Senate
Rob Wagner, President of Senate
Adopted by House June 27, 2025
Julie Fahey, Speaker of House
Enrolled Senate Concurrent Resolution 34 (SCR 34-INTRO) Page 2