1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 785
Sponsored by Senator NASH, Representative LEVY B; Representative HARBICK (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act creates a scholarship program for ag teachers. (Flesch  Readability Score: 75.5).
Establishes the Agriculture Education Scholarship Program to  provide free tuition and fees for
qualifying agriculture education  students in exchange for the student’s commitment to work in a
rural community after graduation.
Appropriates  moneys  for the 2025-2027 biennium to the Higher Education Coordinating Com-
mission for the purpose of administering the Agriculture Education Scholarship Program.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to an agriculture education scholarship.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) As  used in this section, “institution of higher education” has the meaning
given that term in ORS 348.582.
(2) There is created the Agriculture Education Scholarship  Program, to be administered
by the Higher Education Coordinating Commission in  accordance with rules adopted by the
commission. The commission shall determine who  may receive scholarships under subsection
(5) of this section.
(3) A prospective agriculture educator who wishes to participate in the program shall
submit an application to the commission in accordance with  rules adopted by the commis-
sion. To be eligible to receive an  Agriculture Education Scholarship, a prospective agricul-
ture educator must execute a service agreement stating that:
(a) Immediately upon the recipient’s completion  of a qualifying agriculture degree, as
determined by the commission by rule, the recipient will serve  as an agriculture educator in
a rural community in this state for at least the number of  years that the recipient was en-
rolled in the qualifying agriculture  degree program at an institution of higher education for
which the recipient received a scholarship; and
(b) While serving as an agriculture educator in a rural community in  this state, the re-
cipient must meet other requirements established by the commission by rule.
(4) The commission may select recipients  from among the prospective agriculture edu-
cators who submit applications under subsection (3) of this section.
(5) The commission shall provide a scholarship  covering the entire cost of tuition and
fees for a recipient’s education in a qualifying agriculture degree program.
(6)(a) A recipient who fails to complete the agriculture  degree for which the scholarship
was awarded shall repay to the commission the amount of scholarship received.
(b) A recipient who fails to complete  the terms of the service agreement shall repay to
the commission the amount of scholarship received. The  total amount to be paid under this
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2995
SB 785
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
paragraph must be reduced  on a pro rata basis for every full month that the recipient com-
plied with the service agreement.
(c) Upon the death of a recipient, any obligation  of the recipient under this subsection
to repay the commission must be canceled.
(d) In any case of extreme hardship or for other  good cause shown, the commission may
waive, in whole or in part, the right of the commission to recover  moneys made available
under this section.
(7) In the event that a recipient is required  to repay the commission under subsection
(6) of this section, the commission may:
(a) Collect any amounts due;
(b) Have any amounts due  be collected by the Collections Unit in the Department of Re-
venue under ORS 293.250; or
(c) Contract with a collections agency to collect any amounts due.
(8) Any moneys received  or collected by the commission under subsections (6) and (7) of
this section must be deposited  into a separate fund held by the commission for the purpose
of carrying out  the provisions of this section. The commission may not use the moneys in
the fund for any other purpose.
SECTION 2.
Section 1 of this 2025 Act first applies to the 2026-2027 academic year.
SECTION 3. There is appropriated to the Higher Education  Coordinating Commission, for
the biennium beginning July 1, 2025, out of the General Fund, the  amount of $  for the
purpose of administering the  Agriculture Education Scholarship Program created in section
1 of this 2025 Act.
[2]