1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 596
Sponsored by Senator CAMPOS; Senator FREDERICK, Representatives ISADORE,  NELSON, PHAM H (Presession
filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act says a person who qualifies for a veteran car  plate may ask ODOT to waive the
surcharge for the plate. Gives money to ODOT to cover the costs. (Flesch Readability  Score: 78.8).
Provides that a person eligible for a veterans’ recognition registration plate may  request a
waiver of the surcharge imposed for the plate.
Appropriates moneys to the Department of Transportation to cover the waivers.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to veterans’ recognition  registration plates; creating new provisions; and amending ORS
805.105.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 805.105 is amended to read:
805.105. (1) The Department of Transportation shall establish a  veterans’ recognition registra-
tion plate program  to issue registration plates called “veterans’ recognition registration plates”
upon request to an owner of any motor  vehicle registered under ORS 803.420 (6)(a) if the owner of
the motor vehicle qualifies for  the plates. Rules adopted under this section shall include, but need
not be limited to, rules that:
(a) Describe general qualifications  to be met by any veterans’ group in order to be eligible for
a veterans’ recognition registration plate issued under this section.
(b) Specify circumstances  under which the department may cease to issue veterans’ recognition
registration plates.
(c) Specify what constitutes proof of  veteran status for issuance of a veterans’ recognition reg-
istration plate, if such proof is required by a veterans’  group or by the Director of Veterans’ Affairs.
(d) Specify  what constitutes proof that a person is a surviving family member of a person who
was killed in action during an armed conflict while serving in the  Armed Forces of the United
States. The department may only issue a veterans’  recognition registration plate displaying a gold
star decal  and the words “Gold Star Family” to a person who is a parent, sibling, spouse or de-
pendent of a person who was killed in action during an armed  conflict while serving in the Armed
Forces of the United States.
(2)(a) In addition to any other fee  authorized by law, upon issuance of a veterans’ recognition
registration plate under this section and upon renewal of registration for a vehicle  that has plates
issued under this section, the department shall collect a  surcharge of $2.50 per plate for each year
of the registration period for the vehicle as described under ORS 803.415.
(b) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (c) of  this subsection, net proceeds of the sur-
charge collected by the department for the veterans’ recognition registration plate shall be deposited
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2389
SB 596
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
in the trust fund established under ORS 406.050  for paying the expenses of operating the Oregon
Veterans’ Homes identified in ORS 408.362.
(c) If the department issues a  veterans’ recognition registration plate that names, describes or
represents a veterans’ group,  that veterans’ group may designate an account into which the net
proceeds of the surcharge collected  by the department under this section are to be deposited. The
department shall keep accurate records of  the number of plates issued under this paragraph for each
veterans’ group and, after payment of administrative expenses  of the department, shall deposit
moneys collected under this subsection into the specified account.
(d) The department shall  waive the surcharge required under paragraph (a) of this subsection
and transfer the amount otherwise  paid by the person to the trust fund established under ORS
406.050 if:
(A) A request to waive the surcharge is submitted  by a [ Gold Star Family member ] person who
is eligible for a veterans’ recognition registration plate ; and
(B) Funds are appropriated by the Legislative  Assembly or otherwise made available to the de-
partment for the purpose of paying the surcharge.
(e) Deposits under this subsection shall be made quarterly.
(3)(a) In consultation with the Department of Transportation, the Director of  Veterans’ Affairs
shall design the veterans’ recognition registration plate.
(b) If the department issues a veterans’ recognition registration plate to  recognize a veterans’
group, the department shall, in consultation with the requesting veterans’ group, add words or  a
military-related decal to the veterans’ recognition registration plate that names, describes or re-
presents the veterans’ group.
(c) The department shall add a gold star decal  and the words “Gold Star Family” to a veterans’
recognition registration plate background to recognize surviving family members of  persons killed
in action during an armed conflict while serving in the Armed Forces of the United States.
(d) Except as otherwise required by the  design, veterans’ recognition registration plates must
comply with the requirements of ORS 803.535.
(4) The  department shall determine how many sets of veterans’ recognition registration plates
will be manufactured. If the department does not sell or issue renewal for 500  sets of veterans’ re-
cognition registration plates in any one year, the department shall  cease production of veterans’
recognition  registration  plates. For the purposes of this section, veterans’ recognition registration
plates that name, describe or represent a veterans’ group are included in the total number of
veterans’ recognition registration plates issued.
(5) For the purposes of this section, “sibling” includes siblings of the whole or  half blood and
siblings by adoption, marriage or domestic partnership.
SECTION 2.
In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there is appropri-
ated to the Department of Transportation, for  the biennium beginning July 1, 2025, out of the
General Fund, the amount of $_______, which may be expended for carrying out the  amend-
ments to ORS 805.105 by section 1 of this 2025 Act.
[2]