1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2826
Sponsored by Representative EVANS (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Directs ODVA to create a grant program to provide funding to  counties for veterans’
courts. (Flesch Readability Score: 61.8).
Directs the Department of Veterans’ Affairs to develop and implement  a grant program to pro-
vide funding to Oregon counties for veterans’ courts.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to veterans’ courts.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Department of Veterans’ Affairs shall develop and implement a grant
program to provide funding to Oregon counties to:
(a) Support the operation of existing veterans’ courts; and
(b) Support the implementation of veterans’ courts in counties that do not offer veterans’
courts.
(2) To be eligible for a grant under the  program, a county must commit to providing local
resources or funding for veterans’ courts at  a level or in amounts determined by the de-
partment by rule.
(3) The minimum amount of a grant  under the program is $25,000 per biennium. The
maximum amount is $100,000 per biennium.
(4) Under the grant program, counties may submit proposals to the department  that de-
scribe the counties’ need  for grant funding and proposed uses for grant funding. The de-
partment shall award grants to counties on a competitive basis,  with the goal of maximizing
the number of veterans who have access to veterans’ courts.
(5) The department  shall consult with the Advisory Committee established under ORS
406.210 in determining which grant proposals to fund and in what amounts.
(6) Before grant funding is disbursed  to a grant recipient, the department shall enter into
a written grant agreement with the recipient. The grant agreement must:
(a) Set forth permissible uses for the grant funding;
(b) Require the recipient to provide local resources or funding for veterans’ courts; and
(c) Require the recipient to report to  the department on the expenditure of the grant
funding, at intervals  and for a period that the department deems necessary to ensure that
grant funding is expended for permissible purposes.
(7) The department may solicit and accept gifts, grants and donations from  public and
private sources to further the purposes of this section.
(8) The department may adopt rules as necessary  or convenient to implement the pro-
visions of this section.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2300
HB 2826
1
2
3
(9) As used in this section, “veterans’ court” means a specialized court or court  program
for defendants who are military veterans.
[2]