1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
79th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2017 Regular Session
House Bill 3003
Sponsored by COMMITTEE ON HIGHER EDUCATION AND WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Requires each community college that receives state moneys for purpose  of providing specific
workforce development training to complete and return  to Higher Education Coordinating Commis-
sion form detailing how  moneys were used by community college and degree to which moneys
achieved purpose for which moneys were expended.
Requires commission to combine forms from community colleges and  submit report by November
15 of each year.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to workforce development training.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Higher Education Coordinating Commission by rule shall develop  a
form to be completed annually by each community college that  receives state moneys for the
purpose of providing specific workforce development training. The form shall require the
community college to detail:
(a) How the state moneys described in this subsection were  used by the community col-
lege; and
(b) The degree to which the use  of the state moneys described in this subsection achieved
the purpose for which the moneys were expended.
(2) The commission by rule shall establish a date by  which community colleges are re-
quired to complete and return the form developed under subsection (1) of this section.
(3) The commission shall combine the forms received from community colleges under this
section and submit a report in the manner provided in  ORS 192.245 to the interim legislative
committees responsible for workforce development no later  than November 15 of each year.
The report:
(a) Shall describe and analyze the effectiveness of  providing state moneys for the purpose
of providing specific workforce development training at each community college that received
such moneys during the previous 12 months; and
(b) May include recommendations for legislation.
SECTION 2.
 The Higher Education Coordinating Commission shall submit the first report
required under section 1 of this 2017 Act no later than November 15, 2018.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 4120