1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 65
Sponsored by Senator HAYDEN (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The  Act lets a person whose civil rights have been violated by a person acting under
the color of law sue for  damages and other relief. The Act lets a plaintiff who wins this type of suit
recover attorney fees. The Act lets a defendant who wins this type of suit recover  attorney fees if
the plaintiff’s claim was frivolous. (Flesch Readability Score 62.7).
Allows a person who has been deprived of rights, privileges or immunities secured  by the
Oregon Constitution or the laws of this state by a person acting under color of law  to bring a civil
action for economic and noneconomic damages and for injunctive or other equitable relief.
Provides for the award of attorney fees and costs to a prevailing  plaintiff, or to a prevailing
defendant if the  court finds that a plaintiff’s claim was frivolous, unreasonable or without founda-
tion.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to civil rights.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) Any person who has been deprived  of any rights, privileges or immunities
secured by the Oregon Constitution or laws of this state by  a person acting under color of
law, statute, ordinance  or rule of this state or of any local government, as defined in ORS
174.116, may bring a civil action for economic and noneconomic damages,  as defined in ORS
31.705, and for injunctive or other equitable relief.
(2)(a) The  court shall award reasonable attorney fees and costs to a prevailing plaintiff
in an action under this section.
(b) The court may award reasonable attorney fees and costs to a prevailing defendant in
an action under this section if the court determines  that the plaintiff’s claim under this
section was frivolous, unreasonable or without foundation.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2681