1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 924
Sponsored by Senator BONHAM
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act directs the Department of State Police to  study ways to speed up forensic drug
testing. The Act goes into effect when the Governor signs it. (Flesch Readability Score: 70.9).
Requires the Department of State Police to study ways to expedite forensic testing of controlled
substances. Directs the department to submit  findings to the appropriate interim committees of the
Legislative Assembly not later than January 31, 2026.
Declares an emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to the forensic testing of controlled substances; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Department of State Police shall study ways to expedite forensic
testing of controlled substances, with a focus on expediting testing to determine whether
controlled substances were the cause of or otherwise involved in the death of a person.
(2) The department shall provide  the results of the study, including any recommended
legislative changes, in a report to the appropriate interim committees of the  Legislative As-
sembly in the manner provided under ORS 192.245 no later than January 31, 2026.
SECTION 2.
This 2025 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist,  and this 2025 Act takes effect
on its passage.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 3917