1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 846
Printed pursuant to  Senate Interim Rule 213.28 by order of the President of the Senate in conformance with pre-
session filing rules,  indicating neither advocacy nor opposition on the part of the President (at the request
of Governor Tina Kotek for Oregon Health Authority)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act changes how OHA monitors  the health of children served by CCOs. (Flesch
Readability Score: 76.5).
Modifies the requirements for how  the Oregon Health Authority monitors the progress of coor-
dinated care organizations in improving access to and the quality of health care  for children and
youth in the areas served by the coordinated care organizations.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to health care of children served by  coordinated care organizations; amending ORS 414.578.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 414.578 is amended to read:
414.578. (1) A community  health improvement plan adopted by a coordinated care organization
and its community  advisory council in accordance with ORS 414.577 shall include a component for
addressing the health of  children and youth in the areas served by the coordinated care organization
including, to the extent practicable, a strategy and a plan for:
(a) Working with programs developed by the Early Learning Council, Early Learning Hubs,  the
Youth Development Council and the school health providers in the region; and
(b) Coordinating the effective and efficient delivery of health  care to children and adolescents
in the community.
(2) A community health improvement plan must be based on research, including research into
adverse childhood experiences,  and must identify funding sources and additional funding necessary
to address the health needs of children and adolescents in  the community and to meet the goals of
the plan. The plan must also:
(a) Evaluate the adequacy of the existing  school-based health resources including school-based
health centers and school nurses to meet the specific pediatric and adolescent health care needs in
the community;
(b) Make recommendations to  improve the school-based health center and school nurse system,
including the addition or improvement of electronic medical records and billing systems;
(c) Take into consideration whether integration of school-based health centers  with the larger
health system or system of community clinics would further advance the goals of the plan;
(d) Improve the integration of  all services provided to meet the needs of children, adolescents
and families;
(e) Focus on primary care, behavioral health and oral health; and
(f) Address promotion of health and prevention and early intervention in the  treatment of chil-
dren and adolescents.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 464
SB 846
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
(3) A coordinated care organization  shall involve in the development of its community health
improvement plan, school-based health centers, school nurses, school mental health  providers and
individuals representing:
(a) Programs developed by the Early Learning Council and Early Learning Hubs;
(b) Programs developed by the Youth Development Council in the region;
(c) The Healthy Start Family Support Services program in the region;
(d) The Cover All People program and other medical assistance programs;
(e) Relief nurseries in the region;
(f) Community health centers;
(g) Oral health care providers;
(h) Community mental health providers;
(i) Administrators of county health department  programs that offer preventive health services
to children;
(j) Hospitals in the region; and
(k) Other appropriate child and adolescent health program administrators.
(4) The  Oregon Health Authority may provide incentive grants to coordinated care organizations
for the purpose of contracting with individuals or  organizations to help coordinate integration
strategies identified in the community health improvement plan adopted by the community advisory
council. The authority may also  provide funds to coordinated care organizations to improve systems
of services that will promote the implementation of the plan.
(5) [ Each coordinated care organization shall report to the authority,  in the form and manner
prescribed by the authority, on the progress of the  integration strategies and implementation of the plan
for working with the programs  developed by the Early Learning Council, Early Learning Hubs, the
Youth Development Council and school health care providers in the region, as part of  the development
and implementation of the community health improvement plan. The authority shall compile the  infor-
mation biennially and report the information to the Legislative Assembly by December 31  of each
even-numbered year. ] The authority shall monitor statewide progress and the progress of each
coordinated care organization toward  improving equitable access to and the quality of care
for children and youth in the areas served by coordinated care  organizations. No later than
December 31 of  each even-numbered year, the authority shall submit a report to the Legis-
lative Assembly that describes the authority’s findings under this subsection.
[2]