1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
81st OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2021 Regular Session
House Bill 2890
Sponsored by Representative EVANS; Representatives LEWIS,  MEEK, NOBLE, POST, RUIZ, WILLIAMS (Preses-
sion filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced.
Directs Office of Emergency Management to create and maintain registry of  persons able and
willing to provide services related to emergency response. Requires that  registry be accessible to
emergency management agencies and emergency program  managers. Directs office to establish
procedures for communicating with appropriate entities to gather and update registry information.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to emergency response.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Office  of Emergency Management shall create and maintain a reg-
istry of persons who  are able and willing to provide services related to emergency response.
The registry may include:
(a) Current or former first responders;
(b) Persons experienced in construction or other skilled trades; and
(c) Other persons that the office determines are able to assist in emergency response.
(2) As a condition of inclusion on the registry, the office may require:
(a) Evidence of relevant qualifications;
(b) Training related to emergency response, including incident management  or command;
and
(c) Criminal background checks.
(3) The registry must include, for each person:
(a) The person’s name and contact information;
(b) The physical location where the person is based;
(c) Specialized training or skills related to emergency response that the person has; and
(d) A description of vehicles or equipment that the person is willing to permit use of  for
emergency response.
(4) The registry must be accessible to emergency management  agencies and emergency
program managers described in ORS 401.305. The office may make the registry accessible
to any other persons or entities if the office determines that providing such access will en-
hance public safety.
(5) The office shall establish procedures for communicating with emergency management
agencies or other appropriate entities for the purposes of gathering information for  the
registry and regularly updating the information.
(6) The office may adopt rules necessary for the administration of this section.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 275