1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2023 Regular Session
Senate Bill 1021
Sponsored by Senator  HAYDEN, Representatives MORGAN, DIEHL, HIEB; Senators ANDERSON, FINDLEY,
HANSELL, MEEK, SMITH DB, THATCHER, WEBER, Representatives BOICE, EVANS, OWENS, WRIGHT
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced.
Directs Legislative Assembly to allocate moneys to members  for distribution. Establishes pro-
cedure for members of Legislative Assembly to direct distribution of moneys to local  governments,
special government bodies or certain  nonprofit organizations. Establishes restrictions on distrib-
utions. Directs Legislative Assembly to appropriate moneys for distributions.
Declares emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to state financial administration; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) In each biennium, the Legislative Assembly  shall allocate moneys to each
member of the Legislative Assembly for distribution as described in this section.
(2) The Legislative Assembly shall allocate  a minimum of $2 million to each member of
the House of Representatives and a minimum of $4 million to each member of the Senate.
(3) Each member of the  Legislative Assembly may direct the distribution of amounts al-
located to the member to one or more recipient entities, subject to the limitations  in sub-
sections (4) and (5) of this 2023 Act.
(4) Recipient entities must be:
(a) A local government;
(b) A special government body; or
(c) A nonprofit organization that:
(A) Has been recognized as tax  exempt under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue
Code for at least three years as of July 1 of the year in which the distribution is made; and
(B) Maintains a place of business in the member’s district or has performed work in the
member’s district within one year of July 1 of the year in which the distribution is made.
(5) A member  of the Legislative Assembly may not direct the distribution of moneys
under this section to an entity if the member, a  relative of the member or a relative of the
member’s spouse or domestic partner:
(a) Has any pecuniary interest in the entity;
(b) Is employed by the entity;
(c) Serves as a director, however denominated, for the entity; or
(d) May derive personal benefit in any way from a  distribution to the entity, except to
the extent the distribution would affect to the  same degree a class consisting of all inhabit-
ants of the locality in which the entity operates or is located.
(6) Each biennium, the  Legislative Assembly shall appropriate moneys from the General
Fund to the Oregon Department of Administrative Services in an amount sufficient to pay
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 4026
SB 1021
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
for amounts allocated to members under this section. In the appropriation measure,  the
Legislative Assembly shall  incorporate, by reference or otherwise, the list of recipients to
which members have directed distributions and the amounts of such distributions.
(7) The Oregon Department of Administrative  Services shall make the distributions di-
rected by members of the Legislative Assembly under this section no later than December
31 of the first year of the biennium.
(8) As used in this section:
(a) “Local government” has the meaning given that term in ORS 174.116.
(b) “Relative” means a spouse or domestic  partner, child, parent, stepparent, grandchild,
grandparent, stepgrandparent, sibling, stepsibling, niece, nephew or first cousin, or a  spouse
or domestic partner of any of the foregoing.
(c) “Special government body” has the meaning given that term in ORS 174.117.
SECTION 2.
This 2023 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist,  and this 2023 Act takes effect
on its passage.
[2]