1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
79th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2017 Regular Session
House Bill 2405
Sponsored by Representative LIVELY (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Authorizes State Parks and Recreation Director to adopt rules to establish  standards used when
department disburses moneys to  tribal governments under state or federal programs and to make
state funding assistance available to tribal governments for constructing and  restoring memorials
honoring veterans and war memorials on public property.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to moneys provided to tribal  governments by the State Parks and Recreation Department;
amending ORS 390.180.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.  ORS 390.180 is amended to read:
390.180. (1) The State Parks and Recreation Director shall adopt rules that:
(a) Establish the standards  the State Parks and Recreation Department shall use when that de-
partment:
(A) Performs comprehensive statewide recreational planning; or
(B) Disburses any moneys to tribal, regional or local governments  or other state agencies under
programs established under state or federal law.
(b) Establish  a process for the development of a master plan for each state park, including public
participation and coordination with affected local governments.
(c) Establish a master plan for each state park, including  an assessment of resources and a de-
termination of the capacity for public use and enjoyment of each park, that the State Parks  and
Recreation Department shall follow in its development and use of each park.
(d) Make state funding assistance available  to tribal, regional or local governments that dem-
onstrate cooperation with  nonprofit veterans’ organizations for the construction and restoration of
memorials honoring veterans and war memorials located on public property.
(2) The State Parks and Recreation Director shall submit an adopted state  park master plan to
the local government with land use planning responsibility for the subject park.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1259