1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 425
Sponsored by Senators PROZANSKI, MANNING JR; Senators FREDERICK, MEEK (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Says that a merchant cannot charge a fee to use a credit card or debit card if the mer-
chant does not accept cash. (Flesch Readability Score: 76.8).
Prohibits a merchant from charging or collecting a fee for a  person’s use of a credit card or
debit card in payment for  goods or services if the merchant does not accept payment for the goods
or services in cash.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to fees charged for use of a payment card; amending ORS 646A.214.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 646A.214 is amended to read:
646A.214. (1) As used in this  section, “merchant” means a person that, in the ordinary
course of the person’s business, permits another person to  present a credit card or debit
card in payment for goods or services.
[(1)] (2) A merchant that accepts a credit card or debit card for a transaction  may require that
the credit card or debit card holder provide  personal information, other than the personal informa-
tion that appears on the face of  the credit card or debit card, for the purposes of verification of the
card holder’s identity. The merchant may not  write the information on the credit card or debit card
transaction  form.
[(2)] (3) Subsection (2) of  this section [ may not be construed to ] does not  prevent a merchant
from requesting  and keeping in written form information necessary for shipping, delivery or instal-
lation of purchased goods or services, or for warranty when the information is  provided voluntarily
by a credit card or debit card holder.
[(3)] (4) Any provision in a contract between a merchant  and a credit card or debit card issuer,
financial institution or other person that prohibits the merchant  from verifying the identity of a
person who presents a credit  card or debit card in payment for goods or services by requiring or
requesting identification is contrary to public policy and void.
(5) A  merchant may not charge or collect a fee for a person’s use of a credit card or debit
card in payment for goods or services if the  merchant does not accept payment for the goods
or services in cash.
[(4)] (6) [ Nothing in ] This section [ may be construed to ] does not :
(a) Compel  a merchant to verify the identity of a person who presents a credit card or debit card
in payment for goods or services; or
(b) Interfere with the ability of a merchant to make  and enforce policies regarding verification
of the identity of a  person who presents a credit card or debit card in payment for goods or services.
[(5) As used in this section,  “merchant” means a person who, in the ordinary course of that
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2791
SB 425
1
2
3
person’s business, permits persons to present credit cards or debit cards in payment  for goods or ser-
vices.]
[2]