1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2823
Sponsored by Representative EVANS (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Tells a state agency that it  can hire a lawyer to help with getting a patent for any in-
vention someone makes while working or being a student at a public high school. Lets the  agency
share in or say it will not share in the ownership of the patent. (Flesch Readability Score: 66.2).
Permits the Oregon Business Development Department to hire an  attorney for the purpose of
prosecuting a patent for any invention that faculty, staff or students  reduce to practice while em-
ployed by or enrolled in a public high school in this state.
Permits the department to  assume, assign, partake in or disclaim ownership of any patent that
results from an invention under the terms of a contract or other agreement  into which the depart-
ment enters with faculty or  staff, with students who have legal capacity to enter into contracts or
with the legal guardians of students without legal capacity to enter into contracts and in accordance
with rules the department adopts and other applicable law.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to patents for inventions in public high schools in this state.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Oregon Business Development Department may  hire an attorney
with extensive experience in intellectual property law  for the purpose of prosecuting a patent
for any invention that faculty, staff or students reduce to  practice while employed by or
enrolled in a public high school in this state.
(2) The department may assume, assign, partake in or  disclaim ownership of any patent
that results from an invention described in subsection (1) of this section:
(a) Under the terms of a contract or other agreement into which the department  enters
with the faculty or  staff, with students who have the legal capacity to enter into contracts
or with the legal  guardians of students without the legal capacity to enter into contracts;
and
(b) In accordance with rules the department adopts and other applicable law.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2318