1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 3218
Sponsored by Representative NGUYEN H; Representative MCLAIN, Senators ANDERSON, FREDERICK (Preses-
sion filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act tells LCIS and DOE to look at making the Tribal Attendance Promising  Prac-
tices grant program bigger. (Flesch Readability Score: 61.6).
Requires the Commission on  Indian Services and the Department of Education to study the
Tribal Attendance Promising Practices grant  program. Directs the commission and the department
to submit  findings to the interim committees of the Legislative Assembly related to education not
later than September 15, 2026.
Sunsets on January 2, 2027.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to school attendance.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
The Commission on Indian  Services, in conjunction with the Department of
Education, shall study the Tribal Attendance Promising Practices  grant program. Specif-
ically, the commission and the department shall study opportunities to expand the  program
including increases in funding to enable the program to serve  more students at existing
program locations, and increases in funding to facilitate the  establishment of additional
program locations throughout  this state. The commission and the department shall submit
a report in the manner provided by ORS 192.245, and  may include recommendations for leg-
islation, to the interim committees of the Legislative  Assembly related to education no later
than September 15, 2026.
SECTION 2. Section 1 of this 2025 Act is repealed on January 2, 2027.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2345