82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2023 Regular Session
Enrolled
Senate Bill 1069
Sponsored by  Senators JAMA, ANDERSON; Senators GIROD, KNOPP, MEEK, THATCHER,
WOODS, Representatives DEXTER, FAHEY, HELFRICH, JAVADI, TRAN
CHAPTER .................................................
AN ACT
Relating to residential tenancies; amending ORS 90.150, 90.155, 90.160, 90.300,  90.394, 90.412 and
90.414.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1. ORS 90.155 is amended to read:
90.155. (1) Except as provided in ORS 90.300, 90.315, 90.425 and 90.675,  where this chapter re-
quires written notice, service  or delivery of that written notice shall be executed by one or more
of the following methods:
(a) Personal delivery to the landlord or tenant[ ;].
(b) First class mail to the landlord or tenant[ ; or ].
(c) If allowed under a written rental agreement [ so provides ], both first class  mail and attach-
ment to a designated location. In order for a written rental agreement  to provide for mail and at-
tachment service  of written notices from the landlord to the tenant, the agreement must also provide
for such service of written notices  from the tenant to the landlord. Mail and attachment service of
written notices shall be executed as follows:
(A) For written notices from the landlord to the tenant, the first class mail  notice copy shall
be addressed  to the tenant at the premises and the second notice copy shall be attached in a secure
manner to the main entrance to that portion of  the premises of which the tenant has possession; and
(B) For written notices from the  tenant to the landlord, the first class mail notice copy shall
be addressed to the landlord at  an address as designated in the written rental agreement and the
second notice copy shall be  attached in a secure manner to the landlord’s designated location, which
shall be described with particularity in the  written rental agreement, reasonably located in relation
to the tenant and available at all hours.
(d) Except as provided in subsection (5) of this section, electronic mail, for  written no-
tices to the landlord or the tenant, only if allowed under  a written addendum to the rental
agreement that:
(A) Specifies the electronic mail address from which  the landlord agrees to send, and at
which the landlord agrees to receive, electronic mail;
(B) Specifies the electronic mail address from which the tenant  agrees to send, and at
which the tenant agrees to receive, electronic mail;
(C) Is executed by both parties after the tenancy begins  and the tenant has occupied the
premises;
Enrolled Senate Bill 1069 (SB 1069-B) Page 1
(D) Allows the landlord or tenant to terminate the service of written notice  by electronic
mail or to change their specified electronic mail address for  receipt of written notice by
giving no less than three days’ written notice; and
(E) Includes notice in substantially the following form:
THIS IS AN IMPORTANT NOTICE
ABOUT YOUR RIGHTS REGARDING
RECEIPT OF WRITTEN NOTICES.
By signing this  addendum, you agree to receive written notices from your landlord by
e-mail. This may include important legal notices, including rent increase and tenancy  ter-
mination notices. Failure to read or  respond to a written notice could result in you losing
your housing or being unaware of a change in  rent. Signing this addendum is voluntary. Only
agree to service of written notices electronically if you check your e-mail regularly.
(2) If a notice is served by mail  under subsection (1)(b) of this section , the minimum period
for compliance or termination of tenancy, as appropriate, shall be extended by three days,  and the
notice shall include the extension in the period provided.
(3) A  landlord or tenant may utilize alternative methods of notifying the other so long as the
alternative method is in addition to one of the service methods described in  subsection (1) of this
section.
(4) After 30 days’ written notice, a landlord may unilaterally amend a rental  agreement for a
manufactured dwelling or floating home that is subject to ORS 90.505 to 90.850 to provide for service
or delivery of written notices by mail and attachment service as  provided by subsection (1)(c) of this
section.
(5) A party to a rental agreement may  use electronic mail to give a written notice ter-
minating the tenancy only if allowed under subsection (1)(d) of this section  and the termi-
nation notice is sent by both first class mail and electronic mail.
SECTION 2.
 ORS 90.150 is amended to read:
90.150. When this chapter requires actual notice, service  or delivery of that notice shall be ex-
ecuted by one or more of the following methods:
(1) Verbal notice that is given  personally to the landlord or tenant or left on the landlord’s or
tenant’s telephone answering device.
(2) Written notice that is personally delivered to the landlord or tenant, left at the  landlord’s
rental office, sent by facsimile to the landlord’s residence or rental office or to  the tenant’s dwelling
unit, or attached in a secure manner to the main entrance of the landlord’s residence or tenant’s
dwelling unit.
(3) Other written notice [ that is delivered by first class mail  to the landlord or tenant ] under
ORS 90.155. If the notice is mailed, the notice shall be considered served three days  after the date
the notice was mailed.
(4) Any other method reasonably calculated to achieve actual  receipt of notice, as agreed to and
described in a written rental agreement.
SECTION 3.
 ORS 90.160 is amended to read:
90.160. [(1)] Notwithstanding ORCP 10 [ and not including the seven-day and four-day waiting pe-
riods provided in ORS 90.394, where there are ]:
(1) For  references in this chapter to periods [ and] or  notices based on a number of  days, those
days [ shall] must be calculated by consecutive calendar days,  not including the initial day of ser-
vice, but including the last day until 11:59 p.m. [ Where there are ]
(2) For references in this chapter to periods or notices based on  a number of hours, those hours
[shall] must be calculated in consecutive clock hours, beginning :
Enrolled Senate Bill 1069 (SB 1069-B) Page 2
(a) Immediately upon service , except as provided in paragraph (b) of this subsection; or [.]
[(2) Notwithstanding subsection (1) of this section, for nonpayment notices whose periods are based
on a number of hours under ORS 90.394 that are served pursuant to ORS 90.155  (1)(c), the time period
described in subsection (1) of this section begins at 11:59 p.m. the day the  notice is both mailed and
attached to the premises. ]
(b) For notices to terminate a tenancy, at 11:59 p.m. the day that:
(A) A notice given under ORS 90.155 (1)(c) is both mailed and attached to the  premises;
or
(B) A notice given under ORS 90.155 (5) is both mailed and sent by electronic mail.
SECTION 4.
 ORS 90.300 is amended to read:
90.300. (1) As used in this section, “security deposit” includes any last month’s rent deposit.
(2)(a) Except as otherwise provided in this section, a  landlord may require a tenant to pay a
security deposit. The landlord shall provide the  tenant with a receipt for any security deposit the
tenant pays. The landlord shall hold a security deposit or prepaid rent for the tenant who is  a party
to the rental agreement. A tenant’s claim to the security deposit or prepaid rent is prior to the claim
of a creditor of the landlord, including a trustee in bankruptcy.
(b) Except as provided in ORS 86.782 (10), the holder of the landlord’s interest  in the premises
at the time the tenancy  terminates is responsible to the tenant for any security deposit or prepaid
rent and is bound by this section.
(3) A written rental agreement, if any, must list a security deposit paid by  a tenant or required
by a landlord.
(4) A landlord may not  charge a tenant a pet security deposit for keeping a service animal or
companion animal that a tenant with a disability requires  as a reasonable accommodation under fair
housing laws.
(5)(a) Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, a landlord  may not change the rental
agreement to require the tenant to pay a  new or increased security deposit during the first year
after the tenancy has begun. Subject to subsection (4) of this section, the landlord may  require an
additional deposit if the landlord and tenant agree to modify the terms and conditions of the  rental
agreement to permit a pet or for other cause and the additional deposit relates to  the modification.
This paragraph does  not prevent a landlord from collecting a security deposit that an initial rental
agreement provided for but that remained unpaid at the time the tenancy began.
(b) If a  landlord requires a new or increased security deposit after the first year of the tenancy,
the landlord shall allow the tenant at least three months to pay the new or increased deposit.
(6) The landlord may claim  all or part of the security deposit only if the landlord required the
security deposit for any or all of the purposes specified in subsection (7) of this section.
(7)(a) The landlord may claim from the security deposit only the amount reasonably necessary:
(A) To remedy the tenant’s defaults in the  performance of the rental agreement including, but
not limited to, unpaid rent; and
(B) To repair damages to the  premises caused by the tenant, not including ordinary wear and
tear.
(b) A landlord is not required to repair damage caused by the tenant in order  for the landlord
to claim against the deposit for  the cost to make the repair. Any labor costs the landlord assesses
under this subsection for cleaning or repairs must be based  on a reasonable hourly rate. The land-
lord may charge a reasonable hourly rate for the  landlord’s own performance of cleaning or repair
work.
(c) Defaults and damages for which a landlord may recover  under this subsection include, but
are not limited to:
(A) Carpet cleaning, other than the use of a common vacuum cleaner, if:
(i) The cleaning is performed by use of a  machine specifically designed for cleaning or
shampooing carpets;
(ii) The carpet was cleaned or replaced after  the previous tenancy or the most recent significant
use of the carpet and before the tenant took possession; and
Enrolled Senate Bill 1069 (SB 1069-B) Page 3
(iii) The written rental agreement provides that  the landlord may deduct the cost of carpet
cleaning regardless of whether the tenant cleans the  carpet before the tenant delivers possession
as described in ORS 90.147.
(B) Loss of use of the dwelling  unit during the performance of necessary cleaning or repairs for
which the tenant is responsible under this subsection if the cleaning or  repairs are performed in a
timely manner.
(8) A landlord may not require a tenant to pay or to forfeit a security deposit or prepaid  rent
to the landlord for the tenant’s failure  to maintain a tenancy for a minimum number of months in
a month-to-month tenancy.
(9) The landlord must apply any last month’s rent deposit to the rent due for  the last month of
the tenancy:
(a) When either the landlord or the  tenant gives to the other a notice of termination, pursuant
to this chapter, other than a notice of termination under ORS 90.394;
(b) When the landlord and tenant agree to terminate the tenancy; or
(c) When the tenancy terminates in accordance with the provisions of a written  rental agree-
ment for a term tenancy.
(10) A landlord shall account for and refund as provided in subsections (12) to (14) of this section
any portion of a last month’s rent deposit the landlord does not apply  as provided under subsection
(9) of this section. Unless the tenant and landlord agree otherwise,  the tenant may not require the
landlord to apply a last month’s rent deposit to rent due for any period other than the last month
of the tenancy. A  last month’s rent deposit does not limit the amount of rent charged unless a
written rental agreement provides otherwise.
(11) When the tenancy terminates, a landlord shall account for and refund to the tenant, in  the
same manner this section requires for security deposits, the unused  balance of any prepaid rent the
landlord has not previously  refunded to the tenant under ORS 90.380 and 105.120 (5)(b) or any other
provision of this chapter. The landlord may claim from the remaining prepaid rent only the  amount
reasonably necessary to pay the tenant’s unpaid rent.
(12) In order to claim all or part of any prepaid  rent or security deposit, within 31 days after
the tenancy terminates and the  tenant delivers possession the landlord shall give to the tenant a
written accounting that states specifically the basis or bases  of the claim. The landlord shall give
a separate accounting for security deposits and for prepaid rent.
(13) The landlord shall return to the tenant the  security deposit or prepaid rent or the portion
of the security deposit or prepaid rent  that the landlord does not claim in the manner provided by
subsections (11) and (12) of this section not later than 31  days after the tenancy terminates and the
tenant delivers possession to the landlord. If agreed to by both parties  in an addendum executed
after the tenancy begins and the tenant has occupied the premises, the landlord  may return
any amount due under this subsection electronically to  a bank account or other financial
institution designated by the tenant.
(14) The landlord shall give the  written accounting required under subsection (12) of this section
or shall return the security deposit or prepaid rent as  required by subsection (13) of this section by
personal delivery or by first class  mail  or, if allowed under  ORS 90.155 (1)(d), by electronic
mail.
(15) If a security deposit  or prepaid rent secures a tenancy for a space for a manufactured
dwelling or floating home the tenant owns and occupies, whether or  not in a facility, and the
dwelling or  home is abandoned as described in ORS 90.425 (2) or 90.675 (2), the 31-day period de-
scribed in subsections (12) and (13) of this section commences on the earliest of:
(a) Waiver of the abandoned property process under ORS 90.425 (26) or 90.675 (24);
(b) Removal of the manufactured dwelling or floating home from the rented space;
(c) Destruction or other disposition of  the manufactured dwelling or floating home under ORS
90.425 (10)(b) or 90.675 (10)(b); or
(d) Sale of the manufactured dwelling or floating home pursuant to ORS 90.425 (10)(a)  or 90.675
(10)(a).
Enrolled Senate Bill 1069 (SB 1069-B) Page 4
(16) If the landlord fails to  comply with subsection (13) of this section or if the landlord in bad
faith fails to return all or any portion of any prepaid rent or security deposit due to the tenant
under this  chapter or the rental agreement, the tenant may recover the money due in an amount
equal to twice the amount:
(a) Withheld without a written accounting under subsection (12) of this section; or
(b) Withheld in bad faith.
(17)(a) A security deposit or prepaid  rent in the possession of the landlord is not garnishable
property, as provided in ORS 18.618.
(b) If a landlord delivers a security deposit or prepaid rent to a garnishor in  violation of ORS
18.618 (1)(b), the landlord that delivered the security deposit or  prepaid rent to the garnishor shall
allow the tenant at least 30 days after a copy  of the garnishee response required by ORS 18.680 is
delivered to the tenant under ORS 18.690 to restore the security deposit or prepaid rent.  If the
tenant fails to restore a security deposit or prepaid rent under the provisions of this  paragraph be-
fore the tenancy terminates, and the  landlord retains no security deposit or prepaid rent from the
tenant after the garnishment, the landlord is not required to refund or  account for the security de-
posit or prepaid rent under subsection (11) of this section.
(18) This section does not  preclude the landlord or tenant from recovering other damages under
this chapter.
SECTION 5.
 ORS 90.394 is amended to read:
90.394. The landlord may terminate the rental agreement for nonpayment  of rent and take pos-
session as provided in ORS 105.105 to 105.168, as follows:
(1) When the tenancy is a  week-to-week tenancy, by delivering to the tenant at least 72 hours’
written notice of nonpayment and the landlord’s intention to terminate the  rental agreement if the
rent is not paid within that period. The landlord shall give this notice no sooner than on the  fifth
day of the rental period, including the first day the rent is due.
(2) For all tenancies other than week-to-week tenancies, by delivering to the tenant:
(a) At least 72 hours’ written notice of nonpayment  and the landlord’s intention to terminate the
rental agreement if the rent is not paid within that period. The landlord shall  give this notice no
sooner than on the eighth day of the rental period, including the first day the rent is due; or
(b) At least 144 hours’ written notice of  nonpayment and the landlord’s intention to terminate
the rental agreement  if the rent is not paid within that period. The landlord shall give this notice
no sooner than on the fifth day of the rental period, including the first day the rent is due.
(3) The notice described in this section must also specify the  amount of rent that must be paid
and the date and time by which the tenant must pay the rent to cure the nonpayment of rent.
(4) Payment by a tenant who has received a notice under this section is timely if mailed to the
landlord within the period of the notice unless:
(a) The notice is served on the tenant:
(A) By personal delivery as provided in ORS 90.155 (1)(a); [ or]
(B) By first class mail and attachment as provided in ORS 90.155 (1)(c); or
(C) By first class mail and electronic mail as provided in ORS 90.155 (5);
(b) A written rental agreement and the notice expressly state that payment is  to be made at a
specified location that is either on the premises or at a place where the tenant has  made all previ-
ous rent payments in person; and
(c) The place so specified is available to the tenant for payment throughout the period  of the
notice.
SECTION 6.
ORS 90.412 is amended to read:
90.412. (1) As used in this section and ORS 90.414 and 90.417, “rent” does not  include funds paid
to a landlord:
(a) Under the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f).
(b) By any other local, state or federal housing assistance program.
(2) Except as otherwise provided in this section, a landlord waives the right to terminate a
rental agreement for a particular violation of the rental agreement or of law if the landlord:
Enrolled Senate Bill 1069 (SB 1069-B) Page 5
(a) During three or more separate rental periods, accepts rent with knowledge  of the violation
by the tenant; or
(b) Accepts performance by a tenant that varies from the terms of the rental agreement.
(3) A landlord has not accepted rent for purposes of subsection (2) of this section if:
(a) Within 10 days after receipt of the rent payment, the landlord refunds the rent; or
(b) The rent payment is made in the form of a check that is dishonored.
(4) A landlord does not waive the right to terminate a  rental agreement for a violation under
any of the following circumstances:
(a) The landlord and tenant agree otherwise after the violation has occurred.
(b) The violation concerns the tenant’s conduct and, following the violation but prior to  ac-
ceptance  of  rent for three rental periods or performance as described in subsection (2) of this sec-
tion, the landlord gives a written warning notice to the tenant regarding the violation that:
(A) Describes specifically the conduct that constitutes  the violation, either as a separate and
distinct violation, a series or group of violations or a continuous or ongoing violation;
(B) States that the tenant is required to discontinue the conduct or correct the violation; and
(C) States that a reoccurrence of the conduct that constitutes  a violation may result in a ter-
mination of the tenancy pursuant to ORS 90.392, 90.398, 90.405 or 90.630.
(c) The violation  concerns the tenant’s failure to pay money owed to the landlord for damage
to the premises, damage to  any other structure located upon the grounds, utility charges, fees or
deposits and, following the violation but prior to the acceptance of rent  for three rental periods or
performance as described in subsection  (2) of this section, the landlord gives a written warning no-
tice to the tenant regarding the violation that:
(A) Describes specifically the basis of  the claim and the amount of money owed that constitutes
the violation;
(B) States that the tenant is required to correct the violation by paying the money owed; and
(C) States that continued nonpayment of the money owed that constitutes a violation  may result
in a termination of the tenancy pursuant to ORS 90.392.
(d) The tenancy consists of rented space for a manufactured dwelling  or floating home as de-
scribed in ORS 90.505, and the violation concerns:
(A) Disrepair or deterioration of  the manufactured dwelling or floating home pursuant to ORS
90.632; or
(B) A failure to maintain the rented space, as provided by ORS 90.740 (2), (4)(b) and (4)(h) and
(i).
(e) The termination is under ORS 90.396.
(f) The landlord accepts:
(A) A last month’s rent deposit collected at the  beginning of the tenancy, regardless of whether
the deposit covers a period beyond a termination date;
(B) Rent distributed pursuant  to a court order releasing money paid into court as provided by
ORS 90.370 (1); or
(C) Rent paid for a rent obligation not yet due and paid  more than one rental period in advance.
(5)(a) For a continuous or ongoing violation, the landlord’s written warning  notice under sub-
section (4)(b) of this section remains effective for 12 months and may be renewed  with a new
warning notice before the end of the 12 months.
(b) For a violation concerning the tenant’s failure to pay money owed  to the landlord, the
landlord’s written warning  notice under subsection (4)(c) of this section remains effective for 12
months from the date of the tenant’s failure to pay the money owed.
(6) A landlord that must refund rent under this section  or ORS 90.414 shall make the refund :
(a) To the tenant  by personal delivery or first class mail in any form of check  or money
or electronically as provided in ORS 90.300 (13);  or
(b) To any  other  payer by personal delivery or first class mail[ . The refund may be in the form
of the tenant’s or other payer’s check or ] in any [ other] form of check or money.
SECTION 7.
 ORS 90.414 is amended to read:
Enrolled Senate Bill 1069 (SB 1069-B) Page 6
90.414. (1) If a notice of termination has been  given by the landlord or the tenant, the following
do not waive the right of the landlord to terminate on the notice and do not reinstate the tenancy:
(a) Except when the notice is a nonpayment of rent termination notice  under ORS 90.394, the
acceptance of rent if:
(A) The rent is prorated to the termination date specified in the notice; or
(B) The landlord refunds at least the unused balance of the  rent prorated for the period beyond
the termination date within 10 days after receiving the rent payment.
(b) Except if the termination is for cause under ORS 90.392, 90.398, 90.405, 90.630  or 90.632, the
acceptance of rent for a rental period  that extends beyond the termination date in the notice, if the
landlord refunds at least the unused balance of the rent for the period beyond the  termination date
within 10 days after the end of the remedy or correction period described in the applicable notice.
(c) If the termination is for cause  under ORS 90.392, 90.398, 90.405, 90.630 or 90.632 and pro-
ceedings have commenced under ORS 105.105 to 105.168 to recover possession of the premises  based
on the termination:
(A) The acceptance of rent  for a period beyond the expiration of the notice of termination dur-
ing which the tenant remains in possession if:
(i) The landlord notifies the  tenant in writing in, or after the service of, the notice of termi-
nation for cause that the acceptance of rent while  an action for possession is pending will not waive
the right to terminate under the notice; and
(ii) The rent does not cover a period that extends beyond the date  the rent payment is accepted.
(B) Service of a nonpayment of rent termination notice under ORS 90.394.
(2) The following do not waive the right of the landlord  to terminate on a notice of termination
given by the landlord or the tenant and do not reinstate a tenancy:
(a) The acceptance of a last month’s rent deposit collected at the beginning of  the tenancy,
whether or not the deposit covers a period beyond a termination date.
(b) The acceptance of rent distributed under a court order releasing money that was paid into
the court as provided under ORS 90.370 (1).
(c) The acceptance of rent paid for a rent obligation  not yet due and paid more than one rental
period in advance.
[(3) When  a landlord must refund rent under this section, the refund shall be made to the tenant
or other payer by personal delivery or first class mail and may be in the form of the tenant’s  or other
payer’s check or in any other form of check or money. ]
Enrolled Senate Bill 1069 (SB 1069-B) Page 7
Passed by Senate April 13, 2023
Repassed by Senate June 15, 2023
..................................................................................
Lori L. Brocker, Secretary of Senate
..................................................................................
Rob Wagner, President of Senate
Passed by House May 23, 2023
..................................................................................
Dan Rayfield, Speaker of House
Received by Governor:
........................M.,........................................................., 2023
Approved:
........................M.,........................................................., 2023
..................................................................................
Tina Kotek, Governor
Filed in Office of Secretary of State:
........................M.,........................................................., 2023
..................................................................................
Secretary of State
Enrolled Senate Bill 1069 (SB 1069-B) Page 8