79th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2017 Regular Session
Enrolled
House Bill 2873
Sponsored by COMMITTEE ON RULES
CHAPTER .................................................
AN ACT
Relating to municipal corporation elections; creating  new provisions; and amending ORS 254.095,
254.103, 255.085 and 294.311.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.  ORS 294.311 is amended to read:
294.311. As used in ORS 294.305 to 294.565, unless the context requires otherwise:
(1) “Accrual basis” means  the recording of the financial effects on a municipal corporation of
transactions and other events and circumstances that have cash consequences for the municipal
corporation  in  the periods in which those transactions, events and circumstances occur, rather than
only in the periods in which cash is received or paid by the municipal corporation.
(2) “Activity” means a specific  and distinguishable service performed by one or more organiza-
tional components of a municipal corporation to accomplish a function for which  the municipal
corporation is responsible.
(3) “Appropriation” means an  authorization granted by the governing body to make expenditures
and to incur obligations for specific purposes. An appropriation is limited  to a single fiscal year for
municipal corporations preparing annual budgets, or to the  budget period for municipal corporations
preparing biennial budgets.
(4) “Basis of accounting” means the cash basis, the modified accrual basis or the accrual  basis.
(5) “Budget” means  a plan of financial operation embodying an estimate of expenditures for a
given period or purpose and the proposed means of financing the estimated expenditures.
(6) “Budget document” means the estimates of expenditures and budget resources as set  forth
on the estimate sheets, tax levy and the financial summary.
(7) “Budget period” means, for municipal corporations with the  power to levy a tax upon prop-
erty, the two-year period commencing on  July 1 and closing on June 30 of the second calendar year
next following, and for all other municipal corporations, an accounting period  of 24 months ending
on the last day of any month.
(8) “Budget resources” means resources to which recourse can be had to meet obligations and
expenditures during the fiscal year or budget period covered by the budget.
(9) “Cash basis” means a basis of accounting  under which transactions are recognized only in
the period during which cash is received or disbursed.
(10) “Current budget period” means the budget period in progress.
(11) “Current year” means the fiscal year in progress.
(12) “Encumbrance accounting” means the method of accounting  under which outstanding
encumbrances are recognized as  reductions of appropriations and the related commitments are car-
ried in a reserve for encumbrances  until liquidated, either by replacement with an actual liability
Enrolled House Bill 2873 (HB 2873-A) Page 1
or by cancellation. This method of accounting may be used as a modification  to the accrual basis
of accounting in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
(13) “Encumbrances” means obligations in the form  of purchase orders, contracts or salary
commitments which are chargeable to an appropriation and for which a part of the  appropriation
is reserved. Obligations cease to be encumbrances when paid or when the actual liability is set up.
(14) “Ensuing budget period” means the budget period following the current budget period.
(15) “Ensuing year” means the fiscal year following the current year.
(16) “Expenditure” means, if the accounts are kept on  the accrual basis or the modified accrual
basis, decreases in net  financial resources and may include encumbrances. If the accounts are kept
on the cash basis, the term covers only actual disbursement, the drawing of  the check or warrant
for these purposes and not encumbrances, except that deferred employee compensation shall be  in-
cluded as a personnel service expenditure where an approved deferred employee compensation  plan
is in effect for a municipal corporation.
(17) “Fiscal year” means for municipal corporations with  the power to impose ad valorem
property taxes, the fiscal  year commencing on July 1 and closing on June 30, and for all other mu-
nicipal corporations, an accounting period of 12 months ending on the last day of any month.
(18) “Fund balance” means the excess of the assets of a  fund over its liabilities and reserves
except in the case of funds subject to budgetary accounting where, prior to the end of a fiscal pe-
riod, it represents the excess of the fund’s assets  and estimated revenues for the period over its li-
abilities, reserves and appropriations for the period.
(19) “General county resources” means resources  from property taxes, state and federal shared
revenue, beginning balances available for  expenditure and interest not required to be allocated to
specific programs or activities.
(20) “Governing body” means the city council, board of commissioners, board  of directors,
county court or other managing board of  a municipal corporation including a board managing a
municipally owned public utility or a dock commission.
(21) “Grant” means a donation or contribution of cash to a governmental unit by a third  party.
(22) “Intergovernmental entity”  means an entity created under ORS 190.010 (5). The term in-
cludes any council of governments created prior to the enactment of ORS 190.010 (5).
(23) “Internal service fund” means a fund properly authorized  to finance, on a cost reimburse-
ment basis,  goods or services provided by one organizational unit of a municipal corporation to
other organizational units of the municipal corporation.
(24) “Liabilities” means probable future sacrifices of  economic benefits, arising from present
obligations of a municipal corporation to transfer assets or provide services to  other entities in the
future as a result of past transactions or events. The term does not include encumbrances.
(25)(a) “Modified accrual basis” means the accrual basis of accounting adapted to the  govern-
mental fund-type measurement focus. Under this basis of accounting, revenues and other financial
resource increments, such as bond proceeds, are recognized when they become susceptible to ac-
crual, that is, when they become both measurable and available to finance  expenditures in the cur-
rent period.
(b) As used in this subsection, “available” means collectible in the current period  or soon
enough thereafter to be used to  pay liabilities of the current period. Under this basis of accounting,
expenditures are recognized when the fund liability is incurred except for:
(A) Inventories of material and supplies that may be considered expenditures  either when pur-
chased or when used; and
(B) Prepaid insurance and similar items that may be considered expenditures either when paid
for or when consumed.
(26) “Municipal corporation” means any  county, city, port, school district, union high school
district, community college district and all other  public or quasi-public corporations including a
municipal utility or  dock commission operated by a separate board or commission. “Municipal cor-
poration” includes an intergovernmental entity or council of  governments that proposes to impose
or imposes ad valorem property taxes.
Enrolled House Bill 2873 (HB 2873-A) Page 2
(27) “Net working  capital” means the sum of the cash, cash equivalents, investments, accounts
receivable expected to be converted to  cash during the ensuing year or ensuing budget period, in-
ventories, supplies and prepaid expenses less current liabilities and, if encumbrance accounting  is
adopted, reserve for encumbrances. The term is not applicable to the cash basis of accounting.
(28) “Object” means, as used in expenditure classification, articles purchased including, but not
limited to, land, buildings, equipment  and vehicles, or services obtained including, but not limited
to, administrative services, clerical services, professional services, property services  and travel, as
distinguished from the results obtained from expenditures.
(29) “Object classification” means a grouping of expenditures on the basis  of goods or services
purchased, including, but not limited to, personnel services, materials, supplies and equipment.
(30) “Operating taxes” has the meaning given that term in ORS 310.055.
(31) “Organizational unit” means any administrative  subdivision of a municipal corporation, es-
pecially one charged with carrying on one or more functions or activities.
(32) “Population” means the number  of inhabitants of a municipal corporation according to
certified estimates of population made by Portland State University.
(33) “Program” means a group of  related activities aimed at accomplishing a major service or
function for which the municipality is responsible.
(34) “Public utility” means those public utility operations authorized by ORS chapter 225.
(35) “Publish” or “publication” means any one or more of the following methods  of giving notice
or making information or documents available to members of the general public:
(a) Publication in one or  more newspapers of general circulation within the jurisdictional
boundaries of the municipal corporation.
(b) Posting through the United States Postal Service by  first class mail, postage prepaid, to each
street address within  the jurisdictional boundaries of the municipal corporation and to each post
office box and rural route number belonging to a resident  within the jurisdictional boundaries of the
municipal corporation.
(c) Hand delivery  to each street address within the jurisdictional boundaries of the municipal
corporation.
(d) In the case of publishing notice for an election  involving a local option tax measure
or a general obligation bond measure, filing  with the Secretary of State for publication on
the electronic filing system adopted under ORS 260.057.
(36) “Receipts” means cash received unless otherwise qualified.
(37) “Reserve for encumbrances” means a reserve representing  the segregation of a portion of
a fund balance to provide for unliquidated encumbrances.
(38) “Revenue” means the  gross receipts and receivables of a governmental unit derived from
taxes, licenses, fees and from all other sources, but excluding appropriations, allotments and  return
of principal from investment of surplus funds.
(39) “Special revenue fund” means a fund properly authorized and  used to finance particular
activities from the receipts of specific taxes or other revenues.
SECTION 2.
Section 3 of  this 2017 Act is added to and made a part of ORS 294.305 to
294.565.
SECTION 3. If a municipal corporation places a local option tax measure or a general
obligation bond measure on the ballot  to be voted on by the electors of the corporation, the
chief elections officer of a city, governing body of a county or  district elections authority
responsible for filing materials relating to the measure under ORS 254.095  (2), 254.103 (1) or
255.085 (1) shall file the materials with the appropriate county elections  officer. The county
elections official shall file a copy of  the materials with the Secretary of State for publication
on the electronic filing system adopted under ORS 260.057.
SECTION 4.  ORS 254.095 is amended to read:
254.095. (1)  The chief elections officer of any city shall file with the county clerk of the county
in which the city hall of the city is located, a statement of the city offices to be filled or  for which
Enrolled House Bill 2873 (HB 2873-A) Page 3
candidates are to be nominated at the  election and information concerning all candidates for the
offices not later than the 61st day before the date of the election.
(2)(a) Except as provided in subsection (3) of this section, the chief elections officer  of any city
shall file with the county clerk of  the county in which the city hall is located, a statement of the
city measures to be voted on, including the ballot title for each measure, not  later than the 61st day
before the date of the election.
(b) For  each local option tax measure or general obligation bond measure placed on the
ballot by a municipal corporation, the county clerk shall  file a copy of the statement filed
under paragraph (a) of this subsection with the Secretary of State  in the manner set forth
in section 3 of this 2017 Act.
(3) If a measure to be submitted to the electors of a  city at an election held on the first Tuesday
after the first Monday  in November was submitted on the election date in ORS 221.230 (1) imme-
diately preceding the first Tuesday after the first Monday in  November, the chief elections officer
of the city shall file the statement required for that  measure in subsection (2) of this section on the
47th day before an election held on the first Tuesday after the first Monday in November.
(4) The chief elections officer of the city shall keep a copy of each statement  filed under this
section.
(5) If a  city is located in more than one county, the county clerk under subsection (1) of this
section shall immediately file the statement and information required under  subsection (1) of this
section with the county clerk of any other county in which the city is located.
SECTION 5.  ORS 254.103 is amended to read:
254.103. (1)(a) Except as provided in subsection (2)  of this section, the governing body of a
county shall file with the county clerk  each measure referred by the county governing body, in-
cluding the ballot  title for each measure, not later than the 61st day before the date of the election.
(b) For  each local option tax measure or general obligation bond measure placed on the
ballot by a municipal corporation, the county clerk shall file a copy of each  measure filed
under paragraph (a) of this subsection with the Secretary of State  in the manner set forth
in section 3 of this 2017 Act.
(2) If a measure to  be submitted to the electors of a county at an election held on the first
Tuesday after the first Monday in November was submitted on the election date in ORS 203.085  (1)
immediately preceding the first Tuesday after the first  Monday in November, the county governing
body shall file the measure with the county clerk not  later than the 47th day before an election held
on the first Tuesday after the first Monday in November.
SECTION 6.  ORS 255.085 is amended to read:
255.085. (1)(a) Not later than  the 61st day before a district election on a measure, the district
elections authority shall deliver  to the elections officer a notice stating the date of the election and
a ballot title.  The district elections authority shall prepare the ballot title for a measure referred
by the  authority with the assistance of the district attorney for the county of the elections officer
or an attorney employed by the district elections authority.
(b) For  each local option tax measure or general obligation bond measure placed on the
ballot by a municipal corporation,  the elections officer shall file a copy of the notice delivered
under paragraph (a) of this subsection  with the Secretary of State in the manner set forth
in section 3 of this 2017 Act.
(2) If a district submits a measure to the electors of the district at an election  held on the first
Tuesday after the first Monday in November and the district  submitted a measure on the election
date in ORS 255.345 (1) immediately preceding  the date of an election held on the first Tuesday after
the first Monday in November, the district elections authority shall file the  measure for the election
held on the first  Tuesday after the first Monday in November with the elections officer not later
than the 47th day before an election held on the first Tuesday after the first Monday  in November.
(3) A notice of election called to approve the issuance of bonds shall include:
(a) The purpose for which the bonds are to be used;
(b) The amount and the term of the bonds;
Enrolled House Bill 2873 (HB 2873-A) Page 4
(c) The kind of bonds proposed to be issued; and
(d) If  the bond election is authorized by ORS 450.900, the additional notice requirements in ORS
450.905.
(4)(a) In  the case of a measure submitted by initiative or referendum petition, the elections of-
ficer shall publish the notice in  the next available edition of a newspaper of general circulation in
the district after the deadline for filing the notice.
(b) In the case of a measure referred by the district elections authority,  the elections officer
shall publish the notice of election in the next available  edition of a newspaper of general circu-
lation in the district after  the notice of election is filed. The notice shall also state that an elector
may file a petition for review of the ballot title not later than the date  referred to in ORS 255.155.
If the circuit  court certifies a different ballot title, the elections officer shall publish an amended
notice of election in the next available edition of the newspaper referred to in  this subsection after
the new title is certified to the elections officer.
(c) In addition to publishing the  notice as described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this subsection,
the elections officer may publish the notice on the county’s website for a minimum of seven days.
SECTION 7.
Section 3 of this 2017 Act  and the amendments to ORS 254.095, 254.103,
255.085 and 294.311 by sections 1 and 4 to 6 of this 2017 Act apply to  measures that will be
voted on by the electors of a municipal corporation on or after the effective date of this 2017
Act.
Passed by House May 25, 2017
..................................................................................
Timothy G. Sekerak, Chief Clerk of House
..................................................................................
Tina Kotek, Speaker of House
Passed by Senate June 27, 2017
..................................................................................
Peter Courtney, President of Senate
Received by Governor:
........................M.,........................................................., 2017
Approved:
........................M.,........................................................., 2017
..................................................................................
Kate Brown, Governor
Filed in Office of Secretary of State:
........................M.,........................................................., 2017
..................................................................................
Dennis Richardson, Secretary of State
Enrolled House Bill 2873 (HB 2873-A) Page 5