1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 3063
Sponsored by Representative NERON (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Considers a student who is in a hospital program to  be enrolled in the student’s school
district. (Flesch Readability Score: 60.1).
Provides that a student who is  in a hospital educational program shall continue to remain en-
rolled in the school district in which the student had been a resident prior to being  in the hospital
educational  program  only for the purpose of maintaining access to classroom curricula and associ-
ated technology.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to students in hospital educational programs; amending ORS 343.261.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 343.261 is amended to read:
343.261. (1) As used in this section, “hospital” means:
(a) A state-operated hospital;
(b) A hospital or clinic of the Oregon Health and Science University; or
(c) A private hospital that is not a psychiatric facility and that:
(A) Has the capacity to admit patients from throughout this state;
(B) Provides specialized intensive treatment for children with severe, low-incidence types
of disabling conditions; or
(C) Admits children who can expect to be hospitalized for  extended periods of time or
rehospitalized frequently.
(2) Under rules adopted by the State Board of Education:
[(1)] (a) The Superintendent of Public Instruction, in cooperation with [ the] hospital authorities,
shall be responsible for the payment of the cost and oversight  of the educational programs for
children through 21 years of age in a hospital. [ the following institutions: ]
[(a) State-operated hospitals; ]
[(b) The Oregon Health and Science University hospitals and clinics; and ]
[(c) Private hospitals not including psychiatric facilities which: ]
[(A) Have the capacity to admit patients from throughout the state; ]
[(B) Provide specialized intensive treatment for children with severe, low-incidence types  of disa-
bling conditions; and ]
[(C) Admit children who can expect to be hospitalized for extended periods of time or rehospitalized
frequently.]
[(2)] (b) The superintendent shall be responsible  for the payment of the cost of the education
by contract with the school district in which the [ state-operated hospital,  the Oregon Health and
Science University hospital or clinic or the private ] hospital  is located. The hospital shall be respon-
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1468
HB 3063
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
sible for the costs of transportation, care, treatment and medical expenses.  The payments may be
made to the school district, or at the discretion of the school district, to  the district providing the
education, as set forth in [ subsection (3) of this section ] paragraph (c) of this subsection , from  the
funds appropriated for the purpose.
[(3)] (c) The school district  in which the [ state-operated hospital, the Oregon Health and Science
University hospital or clinic or the private ] hospital  is located shall be responsible for providing the
education directly or through an adjacent school district or  through the education service district
in which the program is located or one contiguous [ thereto.] to the school district.
(d) A student who is in a hospital educational program shall continue to  remain enrolled
in the school district in which the student had been a resident prior to being in the hospital
educational program only  for the purpose of maintaining access to classroom curricula and
associated technology.
[(4)] (e) The superintendent shall  make the final determinations concerning the eligibility of
hospitals to receive state funding under this section.
[2]