1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 983
Sponsored by COMMITTEE ON EDUCATION
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act lets local officials act on certain budgets after saying they have a conflict.
(Flesch Readability Score: 61.8).
Permits local public officials to participate in discussion and debate and to vote on  the adoption
of a local budget that includes compensation for the public official or  a relative of the public official
after announcing an actual conflict of interest.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to the adoption of local budgets; amending ORS 244.120.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 244.120 is amended to read:
244.120. (1) Except as  provided in subsection (2) of this section, when met with an actual or
potential conflict of interest, a public official shall:
(a) If the public official  is a member of the Legislative Assembly, announce publicly, pursuant
to rules of the house of which the public official is a member, the nature of the conflict before taking
any action thereon in the capacity of a public official.
(b) If the public official is a judge, remove the judge from the case giving rise to the  conflict
or advise the parties of the nature of the conflict.
(c) If the public official is any other appointed official subject to  this chapter, notify in writing
the person who appointed the public official to office of the nature of the conflict, and request  that
the appointing authority dispose of the matter giving rise  to the conflict. Upon receipt of the re-
quest, the appointing authority shall designate within a reasonable time an alternate  to dispose of
the matter, or shall direct the official to  dispose of the matter in a manner specified by the ap-
pointing authority.
(2) An elected public official, other than  a member of the Legislative Assembly, or an appointed
public official serving on a board or commission, shall:
(a) When met with a potential conflict  of interest, announce publicly the nature of the potential
conflict prior to taking any action thereon in the capacity of a public official; or
(b) When met with an actual conflict of interest, announce  publicly the nature of the actual
conflict and:
(A) Except as  provided in subparagraph (B) or (C) of this paragraph, refrain from participating
as a public official in any  discussion or debate on the issue out of which the actual conflict arises
or from voting on the issue.
(B) If any  public official’s vote is necessary to meet a requirement of a minimum number of votes
to take official action, be eligible to vote, but not  to participate as a public official in any discussion
or debate on the issue out of which the actual conflict arises.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 784
SB 983
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
(C) If the official action is the adoption of a local budget under  ORS 294.305 to 294.565
that includes providing compensation or benefits to the public  official or a relative of the
public official, be eligible to participate in any discussion or debate on the budget and to vote.
(3) Nothing  in subsection (1) or (2) of this section requires any public official to announce a
conflict of interest more than once on the  occasion which the matter out of which the conflict arises
is discussed or debated.
(4) Nothing in this section authorizes a public  official to vote if the official is otherwise pro-
hibited from doing so.
[2]