1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2239
Sponsored by Representative NOSSE (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act tells OHA to adopt standards for  dwellings that house and support people re-
covering from SUDs. (Flesch Readability Score: 60.1).
Directs the Oregon Health Authority to adopt minimum quality and performance standards to
certify recovery residences  that contract with the authority, a coordinated care organization or a
county behavioral health department to provide  housing supports to individuals with substance use
disorders. Prescribes the circumstances under which the authority, a  coordinated care organization
or a county behavioral health department may contract with a recovery residence.
Takes effect on the 91st day following adjournment sine die.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to recovery residences; and prescribing an effective date.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) As used in this section:
(a) “Coordinated care organization” has the meaning given that term in ORS 414.025.
(b) “National recovery  residence organization” means an independent national organiza-
tion that publishes quality and performance standards for recovery residences.
(c) “Recovery residence” means a residential dwelling  that provides primary housing for
individuals who seek a cooperative living arrangement that supports personal recovery  from
a substance use disorder.
(2) The Oregon Health Authority shall adopt minimum quality and performance standards
to certify  recovery residences that contract with the authority, a coordinated care organ-
ization or a  county behavioral health department to provide housing supports to individuals
with substance use disorders. The standards must be  aligned with the standards published
by a national recovery residence organization.
(3) The authority, a coordinated care  organization or a county behavioral health depart-
ment may contract with a recovery residence only if the  recovery residence has been certi-
fied by  the authority or by an affiliate in this state of a national recovery residence
organization.
(4) If the authority,  a coordinated care organization or a county behavioral health de-
partment has documented evidence, including  evidence from a local government or law
enforcement, that a contracted recovery residence has  engaged in fraud, the authority, co-
ordinated care organization or county behavioral health department shall report the evidence
to the Director of the  Oregon Health Authority and to an affiliate in this state, if any, of a
national recovery residence organization.
SECTION 2.
(1) Section 1 of this 2025 Act becomes operative on January 1, 2026.
(2) The Oregon Health Authority may take any  action before the operative date specified
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1174
HB 2239
1
2
3
4
5
6
in subsection (1) of this section that is necessary  to enable the authority to exercise, on and
after the operative date specified in  subsection (1) of this section, all of the duties, functions
and powers conferred on the authority by section 1 of this 2025 Act.
SECTION 3.
This 2025 Act takes effect on the 91st day after the date on  which the 2025
regular session of the Eighty-third Legislative Assembly adjourns sine die.
[2]