1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
81st OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2021 Regular Session
House Bill 3092
Sponsored by COMMITTEE ON WATER (at the request of Representative Ken Helm)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Requires Water Resources Department to establish grant program for purpose of  sharing cost
of remediating reductions in amount  of ground water available for domestic personal use in Greater
Harney Valley Groundwater Area of Concern due to overallocation of ground water for agricultural
use.
Establishes in  State Treasury, separate and distinct from General Fund, Domestic Well Reme-
diation Fund to provide funds for grant program.
Appropriates moneys from General Fund to Water Resources Department  for deposit into Do-
mestic Well Remediation Fund.
Takes effect on 91st day following adjournment sine die.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to ground water levels; and prescribing an effective date.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Water Resources Department shall establish by rule a grant program
for the  purpose of sharing the cost of remediating reductions in the amount of ground water
available for  domestic personal use in the Greater Harney Valley Groundwater Area of Con-
cern due to overallocation of ground water for agricultural use.
(2) In administering the program, the department:
(a) Shall develop a process for applying for a grant and criteria for selecting a grantee.
(b) Shall award grants for:
(A) Up to $10,000 per grantee to  provide for the replacement or repair of a domestic
personal use well affected by declining ground water levels within the Greater Harney Valley
Groundwater Area of Concern; and
(B) Up to 75 percent of the cost of replacing or repairing the well.
(c) Shall, for purposes of the  program, adopt by rule a definition for the term “Greater
Harney Valley Groundwater Area of Concern” or maintain in rule a  definition for the term
that the department adopted before the effective date of this 2021 Act.
(d) May require a grantee to report to the department on the use of the grant funds.
(3) The department shall review the grant program on a biennial basis to assess to  what
extent the outcome  described in subsection (1) of this section is being achieved. The depart-
ment shall modify the process for awarding grants as necessary to better achieve the out-
come described in subsection (1) of this section.
SECTION 2.
(1) There is established in the State Treasury, separate and distinct from the
General Fund, the Domestic Well Remediation  Fund. Interest earned by the Domestic Well
Remediation Fund shall be credited to the fund. All moneys in  the Domestic Well Remedi-
ation Fund are continuously appropriated to the Water Resources Department to carry out
the purposes described in section 1 of this 2021 Act.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1636
HB 3092
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
(2) The Domestic Well Remediation Fund shall consist of all moneys credited  to the fund,
including moneys appropriated or transferred to the fund by the Legislative Assembly.
SECTION 3.
There is appropriated to the Water Resources Department,  for the biennium
beginning July 1, 2021, out of the General Fund, the amount of $500,000 for deposit into the
Domestic Well Remediation Fund established in section 2 of this 2021 Act.
SECTION 4.
This 2021 Act takes effect on the 91st day after the date on which the 2021
regular session of the Eighty-first Legislative Assembly adjourns sine die.
[2]