1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Joint Resolution 23
Sponsored by Senator BONHAM (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The measure would make the scope of the term “bills for  raising revenue” in the Oregon
Constitution more broad, for the purpose of 3/5 vote. (Flesch Readability Score: 63.3).
Proposes an amendment to the Oregon Constitution to expand the  scope of the term “bills for
raising revenue” for a supermajority vote requirement.
Refers the proposed amendment to the people for their approval or rejection at the next regular
general election.
JOINT RESOLUTION
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
PARAGRAPH 1.
 Section 25, Article IV  of the Constitution of the State of Oregon, is amended
to read:
Sec. 25.  (1) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (2) of this section, a majority  of all the
members elected to each [ House] house shall be necessary to pass every bill or Joint resolution.
(2) Three-fifths of all members elected to each [ House] house shall be necessary to pass bills for
raising revenue , including any bill with a net positive revenue impact, if any offset by  tax
expenditures within the bill is disregarded, and any bill that imposes new taxes, increases tax
rates or reduces or eliminates tax expenditures .
(3) All bills, and Joint resolutions passed, shall be signed by the presiding officers of the  re-
spective houses.
PARAGRAPH 2. The amendment proposed by this resolution shall be submitted to  the
people for their approval or rejection  at the next regular general election held throughout
this state.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1835