1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2314
Sponsored by Representative MANNIX; Representatives SCHARF, WRIGHT (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act tells ODA and DCBS to agree to  let ODA enforce rules relating to farmworker
housing. The Act takes effect 91 days after sine die. (Flesch Readability Score: 66.7).
Directs the Department of Consumer and Business Services and the State Department of  Agri-
culture to enter into  a memorandum of understanding for the administration and enforcement of the
safety and health standards for agricultural labor housing.
Takes effect on the 91st day following adjournment sine die.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to a memorandum of understanding concerning oversight  of agricultural labor housing
standards; and prescribing an effective date.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
Section 2 of this 2025 Act is added to and made a part of ORS chapter 654.
SECTION 2. (1) No later than January  2, 2026, the Department of Consumer and Business
Services and the State Department of Agriculture shall enter into a memorandum of under-
standing that addresses the administration and enforcement of the safety and health stan-
dards for agricultural labor housing contained in  this chapter. The terms of the
memorandum of understanding must be consistent with the obligations of this state  under
the federal Occupational Safety  and Health Act of 1970 (29 U.S.C. 651 et seq.) and the pur-
poses described in ORS 654.003. Subject to the  terms of the memorandum of understanding
and to oversight by the Department of Consumer and  Business Services, the State Depart-
ment of Agriculture may perform any function of the Department  of Consumer and Business
Services under this chapter that relates to the safety and health standards  for agricultural
labor housing, including but not  limited to the issuance of permits, establishment of fees,
entry and inspection of premises and assessment of civil penalties.
(2) The Department of Consumer and Business Services and  the State Department of
Agriculture shall consider the following when entering into a memorandum of understanding
under subsection (1) of this section:
(a) The  use of voluntary measures, including education, demonstration projects and in-
centives, if practicable and reasonably expected to be  effective in helping to carry out regu-
latory requirements relating to the health and safety standards for agricultural  labor
housing.
(b) The desirability of having the  State Department of Agriculture serve as the lead
agency responsible for the administration and enforcement of the safety and  health stan-
dards for agricultural labor housing.
(c) The importance of, and public interest in, eliminating poor health and  safety condi-
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1418
HB 2314
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
tions in agricultural labor housing  as a means of protecting against negative impacts to the
environment.
(3) In adopting rules subject to the memorandum of understanding required by subsection
(1) of this section, the Department of Consumer and Business  Services and the State De-
partment of Agriculture shall consult with each other.
SECTION 3.
This 2025 Act takes effect on the 91st day after the date on  which the 2025
regular session of the Eighty-third Legislative Assembly adjourns sine die.
[2]