1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2705
Sponsored by Representative EVANS (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Tells the HECC to study how much money the state should get for  each patent a college
gets after receiving public money. (Flesch Readability Score: 65.2).
Requires the Higher Education Coordinating Commission, in coordination  with public universi-
ties and community colleges, to conduct  a study to determine the appropriate rate of return the
State of Oregon should receive for each patent obtained as a result of public moneys  provided to a
public university or community college. Requires the commission  to submit findings to the interim
committees of the Legislative Assembly related to education not later than September 15, 2026.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to patents resulting from public funding of post-secondary institutions of education.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
The Higher Education Coordinating Commission, in  coordination with public
universities listed in ORS 352.002  and community colleges operated under ORS chapter 341,
shall conduct a study to determine the appropriate rate of return the State  of Oregon should
receive for each patent that is  obtained as a result of public moneys provided to a public
university or community college. The commission shall submit a report in the  manner pro-
vided by ORS 192.245, and may include recommendations for legislation, to the interim com-
mittees of the Legislative Assembly related to education no later than September 15, 2026.
SECTION 2. Section 1 of this 2025 Act is repealed on January 2, 2027.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 3143