1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 1072
Sponsored by Senator SMITH DB
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act  tells a county clerk to make sure a person’s party is not changed when the
person updates an address with ODOT, unless the  person asks for the change. (Flesch Readability
Score: 66.4).
Requires a county clerk to verify that a person’s political party affiliation is not changed  when
the person updates that person’s address with the  Department of Transportation, unless the person
has requested the change as provided by law.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to political party affiliation; amending ORS 247.017.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 247.017 is amended to read:
247.017. (1) The Secretary of State shall by rule establish a schedule by  which the Department
of Transportation shall provide to the secretary electronic records containing the legal name,  age,
residence and citizenship information for, and  the electronic signature of, each person who meets
qualifications identified by the secretary by rule.
(2) Upon receiving the  electronic record for, and electronic signature of, a person described in
subsection (1) of this section, the Secretary of State  shall provide the information to the county
clerk of the county in which the person may be  registered as an elector. The secretary or county
clerk shall notify each person of the process to:
(a) Decline being registered as an elector.
(b) Adopt a political party affiliation.
(3)(a) If a person notified under subsection (2) of this section does not  decline to be registered
as an elector within 21 calendar days after the Secretary of State or county clerk issues the  notifi-
cation, the person’s electronic record and electronic signature submitted under subsection  (1) of this
section will constitute a completed registration card for the person for  purposes of this chapter. The
person shall be registered to  vote if the county clerk determines that the person is qualified to vote
under Article II, section 2, of the Oregon Constitution, and the person is not  already registered to
vote.
(b) For any  person whose electronic record is provided to the Secretary of State under
subsection (1) of  this section because that person updated the person’s residence address
with the Department of Transportation, and that person is already registered to vote  at the
time the electronic record is provided, the county clerk shall verify that the person’s political
party affiliation is not changed unless the person has  requested the change as provided in
this chapter.
(4) A county clerk may not send a ballot  to, or add to an elector registration list, a person who
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 3816
SB 1072
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
meets eligibility requirements until at least 21 calendar days after the Secretary of State or  county
clerk provided notification to the person as described in subsection (2) of this section.
(5) In addition to providing electronic records to the  Secretary of State under subsection (1) of
this section, the Department of  Transportation may by rule develop, and require the availability or
use of, any form or application the department determines  is necessary to ensure compliance with
the voter registration provisions of the National Voter Registration Act of 1993 (P.L. 103-31).
(6) The Secretary of State shall adopt rules required to implement  subsections (1) to (4) of this
section.
[2]