1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2026 Regular Session
Senate Bill 1596
Sponsored by Senators FREDERICK, MANNING JR; Senators CAMPOS, GOLDEN,  JAMA, PROZANSKI, WEBER,
Representatives ANDERSEN, GAMBA, HELM,  ISADORE, MCINTIRE, NELSON, PHAM H, WISE (at the re-
quest of Oregon Public Education Network) (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Allows learning by playing to count  towards time required by the State Board of Edu-
cation. (Flesch Readability Score: 61.8).
Directs the State Board of Education to allow play-based learning  to be considered instructional
time for students in kindergarten through grade five.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to play-based learning.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
Section 2 of this 2026 Act is added to and made a part of ORS chapter 329.
SECTION 2. (1) As used in this section:
(a) “Free play” means activities that:
(A) Are performed by a child for self-amusement; and
(B) Are spontaneous, voluntary, unstructured and child-directed.
(b) “Guided play” means experiences that:
(A) Are under adult guidance; and
(B) Combine the child-directed nature of free play with a focus on learning outcomes.
(c) “Play-based learning” means learning that:
(A) Emphasizes free play or guided play; and
(B) Uses developmentally appropriate strategies that  can be integrated into existing
learning standards.
(d) “Recess” means a period of at  least 20 minutes during which students engage in
physical exercise.
(2) Any rules adopted by the State Board of Education that prescribe requirements  for
instructional time shall allow play-based learning to be  considered instructional time for
students in kindergarten through grade five.
(3) For the purpose of this section, play-based learning does not include participation in
physical education that complies with the requirements of ORS 329.496 or recess.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 191