1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 1180
Sponsored by Senator TAYLOR
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act tells the SOS to give the  legislature a list of each IM petition that may be on
the next general  election ballot. The Act provides for a process for the legislature to hold public
hearings on those petitions. (Flesch Readability Score: 61.7).
Requires the  Secretary of State to submit to the Legislative Assembly, by November 1 of each
odd-numbered year, a list of each prospective statewide initiative petition that has been filed  for the
next general election. Requires  the submission to include the text, ballot title and total number of
signatures gathered for each prospective petition. Requires the secretary to provide  updates during
the first week of December, January and February.
Permits legislative leadership to request  impartial analyses and summaries by nonpartisan leg-
islative staff for each prospective petition  provided by the secretary. Requires nonpartisan legisla-
tive staff to provide legislative leadership with impartial analyses of the policy, fiscal and revenue
impacts and legality for each prospective petition as requested by legislative leadership.
Requires legislative leadership to use the analyses from nonpartisan staff to determine  whether
the state would benefit from holding public hearings  on one or more prospective petitions during the
even-year session.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to ballot measures.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
Section 2 of this 2025 Act is added to and made a part of ORS chapter 250.
SECTION 2. (1) As used in this section;
(a) “Legislative leadership” means the President  and majority and minority leaders of the
Senate and Speaker and majority and minority leaders of the House of Representatives.
(b) “Prospective petition” means  a petition for a state measure to be initiated that, if
sufficient signatures are collected, would be approved  or rejected by the people at the next
general election.
(2) Not later than November 1 of each odd-numbered year, the Secretary  of State shall
submit to the Legislative Assembly:
(a) A list of each prospective petition; and
(b) For each prospective petition, the text, ballot title and total number of  signatures the
chief petitioner, or agent on behalf of the chief petitioner, has filed with the Secretary  of
State as of the submission date.
(3) The Secretary of State shall provide the Legislative Assembly with updates of the in-
formation submitted under subsection (2) of this section during the  first week of the De-
cember, January and February that immediately follow a submission made under subsection
(2) of this section.
(4) For each prospective  petition submitted to the Legislative Assembly under subsection
(2) or (3) of this section, legislative leadership may request the following:
(a) The Legislative Policy  and Research Director shall provide an impartial summary that
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 4063
SB 1180
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
describes the policy impacts if the prospective petition is enacted into law;
(b) The Legislative Fiscal Officer shall conduct an impartial analysis of the fiscal  impact
to the state if the prospective petition is enacted into law;
(c) The Legislative Revenue Officer  shall conduct an impartial analysis of the revenue
impact to the state if the prospective petition is enacted into law; and
(d) The Legislative Counsel shall conduct an impartial analysis to determine if  any con-
stitutional or other legal concerns would be raised if the prospective petition is  enacted into
law.
(5) Legislative leadership shall  use the analyses provided under subsection (4) of this
section to determine whether the state would benefit from holding public hearings on one
or more of the prospective petitions submitted under subsection (2) or (3) of this section
during the  even-numbered year regular session of the Legislative Assembly following the
submission of the prospective petitions.
[2]