1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
79th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2017 Regular Session
House Bill 3435
Sponsored by Representative SMITH DB
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Authorizes moneys in county road fund to be loaned to taxing district within county only  pur-
suant to legally binding intergovernmental agreement or loan agreement.
Takes effect on 91st day following adjournment sine die.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to county road fund moneys; and prescribing an effective date.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) Moneys in a county road fund  may be loaned to any other taxing district
located within the county.
(2) The amount of  the loan may not exceed the amount of operating taxes estimated to
be collected by the taxing district to which the moneys are loaned, plus interest, for a period
of 20 consecutive years.
(3)(a) Moneys may be loaned  under this section only pursuant to a legally binding inter-
governmental agreement  or loan agreement entered into by the governing bodies of the
taxing district to which the moneys are to be loaned and the county loaning the moneys.
(b) The intergovernmental agreement or loan agreement must contain provisions that:
(A) Fix the principal amount of the loan and state the method of determining  the rate
of interest.
(B) Fix the term of the loan and the schedule of the payments of principal and interest.
(C) Pledge the operating  tax revenues of the taxing district as security for repayment
of the loan, plus interest.
(D) Identify the purpose for which the taxing district is borrowing the moneys.
(4) The governing bodies of the taxing district and the county  shall account for the loan
and the repayment obligation, including interest, in their  annual budgets for the term of the
loan.
SECTION 2.
This 2017 Act takes effect on the 91st day after the date on  which the 2017
regular session of the Seventy-ninth Legislative Assembly adjourns sine die.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 4342