1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2023 Regular Session
Senate Bill 1094
Sponsored by COMMITTEE ON RULES
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Authorizes Secretary of State to secure federal grant moneys to  fund pilot project providing live
video feed of rooms in which ballots are counted and official ballot drop sites.
Sunsets secretary’s authority to secure federal grant moneys for pilot project on July 1, 2026.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to election transparency.
Whereas Oregon is responsible for providing its  citizens with safe, secure and transparent
elections that build trust between voters and their democratically elected officials; and
Whereas the  current Oregon election system and processes are designed to ensure integrity and
reflect these important values; and
Whereas false information from  domestic and foreign sources have weakened public trust in our
election process; and
Whereas violence and violent threats directed at election officials and their families based  on
false information are unacceptable and the antithesis of what our nation stands for; and
Whereas Oregon is responsible for protecting the voting rights of Oregonians and helping
election officials adapt their voting systems to meet today’s challenges; now, therefore,
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Secretary of State may apply  to the federal government for grant
moneys to fund a pilot project for the purpose of  providing a live video feed that may be
publicly accessed over the Internet of:
(a) Rooms in which ballots are tallied; and
(b) Official ballot drop sites.
(2) The  secretary may adopt rules that establish the requirements for the location and
operation of  any video cameras installed or operated under this section. The rules shall en-
sure that a video camera is not installed or operated in a manner that would:
(a) Violate an election security plan adopted under ORS 254.074; or
(b) Identify  the manner in which any individual elector cast the elector’s ballot for or
against any candidate or ballot measure.
SECTION 2.
Section 1 of this 2023 Act is repealed on July 1, 2026.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 4473