1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
80th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2019 Regular Session
Senate Bill 257
Sponsored by Senator ROBLAN, Representatives MCKEOWN, MARSH,  Senator HANSELL, Representatives
MCLANE, SMITH G; Senators BAERTSCHIGER JR, BENTZ, DEMBROW,  GELSER, HEARD, MONNES
ANDERSON, THOMSEN, Representatives BOLES, GOMBERG,  HELM, KENY-GUYER, NOSSE, REARDON,
SMITH DB, SPRENGER, WILSON, WITT (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced.
Appropriates moneys from General Fund to Higher Education  Coordinating Commission for ag-
ricultural experiment station and branch stations, Oregon State  University Extension Service and
Forest Research Laboratory programs of Oregon State University.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to state financial administration.
Whereas the agricultural experiment station,  extension service and forest research laboratory
programs of Oregon State University are central to the mission of the university; and
Whereas those programs rely in part on state financial support; and
Whereas those programs address emerging issues important to communities,  families and indus-
tries in both rural and urban areas of Oregon; and
Whereas additional funding for those programs will enable increased investment in sustainable
management of working  landscapes, in improvements to water quality and quantity, in promotions
of public health,  food safety and security, in technologies for business development, in value-added
manufacturing and in education for the workforce of the future; now, therefore,
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there is appropri-
ated to the Higher Education Coordinating Commission, for the biennium beginning  July 1,
2019, out of the General Fund, the amount of $30,000,000,  which may be expended for Oregon
State University programs as follows:
(1) For the agricultural experiment station and branch stations, $16,000,000.
(2) For the Oregon State University Extension Service, $11,500,000.
(3) For the Forest Research Laboratory, $2,500,000.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2019