1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 4
Sponsored by Senator BROADMAN
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Makes an Internet service provider give a bill credit for any service outage  that is more
than one hour. (Flesch Readability Score: 62.8).
Requires an Internet service provider to issue a prorated bill credit to a  consumer for any ser-
vice outage that  lasts longer than one hour. Requires a provider to maintain records of all outages
and bill credits for at least three years.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to Internet service providers.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
Section 2 of this 2025 Act is added to and made a part of ORS chapter 759.
SECTION 2. (1) As used in this section:
(a) “Consumer” means  a person who purchases Internet access service for personal,
family, household, business or commercial purposes.
(b) “Internet service  provider” means a person or public body that provides Internet ac-
cess services.
(c) “Outage” means  a period of time during which a consumer’s Internet access service
is not available, excluding any period of time  that is for scheduled maintenance for which the
consumer has been notified at least 24 hours in advance.
(2) An  Internet service provider operating in this state shall issue a prorated bill credit
to a  consumer for any outage to the consumer’s Internet access service that lasts longer
than one hour. The Internet service provider shall:
(a) Calculate the credit based on the consumer’s monthly service rate prorated for the
duration of the outage;
(b) Apply the credit to the consumer’s next billing cycle without requiring the  consumer
to take any action; and
(c) Notify the consumer of the outage and credit.
(3) An Internet service provider  shall maintain a record of all outages and corresponding
bill credits for a minimum of three years and provide the records to the Public Utility Com-
mission upon request by the commission for the purpose of ensuring compliance  with sub-
section (2) of this section.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 4646