1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2026 Regular Session
Senate Concurrent Resolution 202
Sponsored by Senator ROBINSON, Representative RESCHKE (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Warns of the dangers  of drug use and urges people not to use them except for medical
reasons. (Flesch Readability Score: 71.0).
Urges Oregonians  to avoid the use of psychoactive drugs except as needed for legitimate med-
ical purposes.
CONCURRENT RESOLUTION
Whereas psychoactive drugs such as marijuana, fentanyl,  heroin, methamphetamine and cocaine
present serious risks to those who use them  and can lead to many adverse health effects including
dependency  and  addiction, permanent IQ loss and the impairment of fetal development, and even to
death; and
Whereas the use of psychoactive drugs can impair a driver or machine operator’s  coordination,
judgment, reaction time and decision-making, and it is illegal to drive while under the  influence of
psychoactive drugs; and
Whereas Oregon has seen a sharp increase in drug-impaired driving  fatalities since the
legalization of recreational marijuana, with the number of fatal crashes in this state related  solely
to the use of psychoactive drugs increasing from 56 in 2015 to 188 in 2022,  and the number related
to a combination of alcohol and drug use increasing from 32 to 148 in the same time period; and
Whereas it is a misdemeanor crime  to possess even small amounts of most psychoactive drugs
in Oregon; and
Whereas while the Oregon Liquor and Cannabis Commission operates a licensing program for
marijuana production and distribution outlets, this does not  equate to explicit approval of recre-
ational drug use by the State of Oregon; and
Whereas Oregonians are better off when they do not make a habit of  ingesting psychoactive
drugs; now, therefore,
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
That we, the members of the Eighty-third Legislative Assembly, urge Oregonians to avoid the
use of psychoactive drugs from any source except as  needed for legitimate medical purposes; and
be it further
Resolved, That the licensing of marijuana facilities by  the Oregon Liquor and Cannabis Com-
mission should not be taken as  an official endorsement by the State of Oregon, and we urge
Oregonians to avoid patronizing these facilities except as needed for legitimate medical purposes.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 56