1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 3741
Sponsored by Representatives HELFRICH, DRAZAN
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act allows  members-elect of the Senate and the House to hire office staff to begin
the first day of the month in which  the member takes the oath of office. (Flesch Readability Score:
66.7).
Authorizes a member-elect of the Legislative Assembly to recruit and hire legislative  assistants
to begin work on the first day of the month in which the member-elect takes the oath of office.
Takes effect on the 91st day following adjournment sine die.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to legislative staff; and prescribing an effective date.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) Any person who receives  a certificate of election as a member of the
Legislative Assembly  may recruit for legislative assistants to serve in the legislative office
of the  member-elect, each legislative assistant hired under this section to continue in that
office upon the member-elect taking the  oath of office and becoming a member of the Leg-
islative Assembly.
(2) The recruitment and hiring shall  be in compliance with the rules of the chamber in
which the member-elect is to serve, the legislative branch personnel rules and  the human
resources policies of the legislative branch.
(3) The appointment may be effective as of the  first day of the month in which the
member-elect takes the oath of office.
(4) A legislative assistant hired under this section is an at-will  employee of the legislative
branch.
SECTION 2. This 2025 Act takes effect on the 91st day after the date on  which the 2025
regular session of the Eighty-third Legislative Assembly adjourns sine die.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 3974