1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 892
Sponsored by Senator THATCHER, Representative WRIGHT; Senator WEBER, Representative LEVY B
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Directs school boards to provide facts about courses  on the district’s website. (Flesch
Readability Score: 67.7).
Prescribes information related to  courses of study offered by a school district that a district
school board must ensure is provided on the school district’s website.
Declares an emergency, effective September 1, 2025.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to the  provision of information for courses of study offered by school districts; amending
ORS 336.035; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 336.035 is amended to read:
336.035. (1) (a) [ The] A district school board shall [ see] ensure  that the courses of study pre-
scribed by law and by the rules of the State Board of Education are carried out.
(b) [ The] A district school board may establish supplemental courses  that are not inconsistent
with the prescribed courses  and may adopt courses of study in lieu of state courses of study upon
approval by the Superintendent of Public Instruction.
(2) For courses  of study offered by a school district, the district school board shall ensure
that the school district’s website includes:
(a) A link to the webpage of the Department of Education that lists  the textbooks and
other instructional materials adopted by the State Board of Education under ORS  337.050
that relate to the courses of study offered by the school district; and
(b) A link to the webpage of the Department of Education that describes academic  con-
tent standards for courses of study offered by the school district.
[(2)] (3) Any district school board may  establish a course of education concerning sexually
transmitted infections including recognition of causes,  sources and symptoms, and the availability
of diagnostic and treatment centers. Any such  course established may be taught to adults from the
community served by the individual schools as well as to students  enrolled in the school. The board
shall cause the parents or guardians of minor students to  be notified in advance that the course is
to be taught. Any such parent or guardian may direct in writing that  the minor child in the care
of the parent  or guardian be excused from any class within the course. Any parent or guardian may
inspect the instructional materials to be used before or during the time the course is taught.
[(3)] (4) The district school board shall coordinate the course provided in subsection  [ (2)] (3) of
this section with  the officials of the local health department and the Superintendent of Public In-
struction. Teachers holding  endorsements for health education shall be used where available. A
teacher may not  be subject to discipline or removal for teaching or refusing to teach courses con-
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 821
SB 892
1
2
3
4
5
cerning sexually transmitted infections.
SECTION 2.
This 2025 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the  public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is  declared to exist, and this 2025 Act takes effect
September 1, 2025.
[2]