1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
81st OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2021 Regular Session
House Bill 2018
Sponsored by Representative OWENS (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Instructs Water Resources Department to enter into agreement with United States Geological
Survey to produce and publish ground water budgets for all major  hydrologic basins in this state,
contract for person to produce report on statewide consumptive water use, establish ground  water
level monitoring network and  measure progress in estimating and monitoring ground water levels
and ground water use.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to assessment of ground water resources.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
The Water Resources Department shall:
(1) Enter into a cost-matching agreement with the United States Geological Survey  to
develop and publish ground water budgets for all major hydrologic basins in this state.
(2) Contract for a person  to produce a peer-reviewed report on statewide consumptive
water use that summarizes historical irrigation water use for all irrigated  fields and esti-
mates open water evaporation from all major reservoirs in this state between 1984  and 2019.
(3) Establish a  comprehensive ground water level monitoring network to improve esti-
mates of ground water use.
(4) Measure progress in estimating and monitoring ground water  levels and ground water
use by:
(a) Publishing reports that quantify ground water  recharge for all major hydrologic
basins in this state;
(b) Producing statewide maps and datasets  that quantify open water evaporation from
all major reservoirs in this state;
(c) Collecting and processing data concerning baseline ground water levels and use;
(d) Assessing the time and cost of conducting ground water basin studies; and
(e) Assessing  prioritization of water management in major hydrologic basins in this state.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1381