1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 948
Sponsored by Senator FREDERICK (at the request of Oregon Public Education Network)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The  Act would give school boards power to allow play-based learning in preschool
through grade 5. (Flesch Readability Score: 74.2).
Authorizes  district  school boards to provide for play-based learning during the instructional time
of each regular school day for all students who are  enrolled in prekindergarten through grade five
in the school district.
Directs the Department of  Education, in consultation with the Department of Early Learning
and Care and the Teacher Standards and Practices Commission,  to provide professional development
opportunities in the  pedagogy of play-based learning to child care providers and teachers providing
instruction in prekindergarten through grade five in this state.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to play-based education.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) As used in this section:
(a) “Free play” means unstructured, voluntary and child-initiated activities  that are
performed by a child for self-amusement and have  behavioral, social and psychomotor re-
wards. “Free play” may be fostered to promote activities that  are child-directed, joyful and
spontaneous.
(b) “Guided play” means learning experiences that combine the child-directed  nature of
free play with a focus on learning outcomes and adult guidance.
(c) “Instructional time” means time  during which students are engaged in regularly
scheduled instruction, learning activities or learning assessments  that are designed to meet
the Common Curriculum Goals and academic  content standards adopted by the State Board
of Education under ORS 329.045.
(d) “Play-based learning” means a pedagogical philosophy that emphasizes free or  guided
play in promoting  learning and uses developmentally appropriate strategies that can be in-
tegrated into existing learning standards.  “Play-based learning” does not mean time spent in
recess or in a physical education class.
(e) “Recess” means a period of at least 20 minutes during the  regular school day for
students to engage in physical exercise.
(2) Each district school board may provide for play-based learning during  the instruc-
tional time of each regular school  day for all students who are enrolled in prekindergarten
through grade five in the school district.
(3) The Department of Education, in consultation with the Department of  Early Learning
and Care and  the Teacher Standards and Practices Commission, shall provide professional
development opportunities in the pedagogy of play-based  learning to child care providers and
teachers providing instruction in prekindergarten through grade five in this state.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2611
SB 948
1
[2]