1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
79th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2017 Regular Session
Senate Bill 139
Sponsored by Senator MONNES ANDERSON, Representatives PILUSO, GORSEK (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Appropriates moneys from General Fund to Oregon  Department of Administrative Services for
construction and capital equipment of  innovation and workforce training center in Rockwood
neighborhood of Gresham.
Declares emergency, effective July 1, 2017.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to state financial administration; and declaring an emergency.
Whereas the Rockwood neighborhood in Gresham is one of the most populous and diverse  com-
munities in  Oregon, with a population of approximately 17,000 residents who speak over 70 lan-
guages; and
Whereas Rockwood has become a home  to many new communities, including recent immigrants,
refugees and individuals displaced from other neighborhoods of the Portland region; and
Whereas the Rockwood-West Gresham area provides over 10,000 private sector jobs in  special-
ized fields including manufacturing  and food production that require job training and certification;
and
Whereas the City of Gresham recognizes there  is a tremendous need to provide job training to
residents with extremely low incomes who are in need of access to jobs; and
Whereas the Rockwood neighborhood includes high rates of poverty and unemployment; and
Whereas the Rockwood Rising Redevelopment Project is a public-private partnership  creating
an economic engine focused  on job creation and workforce development in order to increase incomes
and provide opportunity for the residents of Gresham; and
Whereas Rockwood Rising is currently in architectural design for a mixed use office, commercial
and residential center on five acres in the town center; and
Whereas Rockwood Rising includes experienced partners with programs to  provide job training
and workforce development including  MetroEast Community Media, WorkSource Oregon,
Worksystems, Inc., Mt. Hood Community College and the Oregon Small  Business Development Cen-
ter Network; and
Whereas the colocation of these partners creates an  Innovation and Workforce Training Center
that will include job training, small business development, a digital  media lab, incubator office space
and a  manufacturing maker space to provide residents skills and opportunities across the economic
spectrum; and
Whereas the Rockwood Rising  Redevelopment Project is estimated to include approximately 400
jobs on the site; and
Whereas the City of Gresham recognizes the need to serve a  growing and diverse community
with programs to  create employment and proudly supports the plans to build a new Innovation and
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1663
SB 139
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
Workforce Training Center in the Rockwood neighborhood; now, therefore,
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there  is appropri-
ated to the Oregon Department of Administrative Services,  for the biennium beginning July
1, 2017, out of the General Fund, the  amount of $2,000,000, for the construction and capital
equipment of an innovation and workforce training center to be located in the  Rockwood
neighborhood in Gresham.
SECTION 2. This 2017 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist,  and this 2017 Act takes effect
July 1, 2017.
[2]