1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 325
Printed pursuant to  Senate Interim Rule 213.28 by order of the President of the Senate in conformance with pre-
session filing rules,  indicating neither advocacy nor opposition on the part of the President (at the request
of Senate Interim Committee on Education)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Directs LPRO to conduct a study on fiscal impact  statements that are made by school
districts. (Flesch Readability Score: 63.6).
Requires the Legislative and Policy Research Director to cause to be studied the accuracy  of
fiscal impact statements that are submitted by school districts to the  Legislative Fiscal Office. Di-
rects the director to submit findings to the interim committees of  the Legislative Assembly related
to education not later than September 15, 2026.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to fiscal impact statements from school districts.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
The Legislative Policy  and Research Director shall cause to be studied the
accuracy of the fiscal impact  statements that are submitted by school districts to the Leg-
islative Fiscal Office during the legislative session.  The director shall submit a report on the
study in the manner provided by ORS 192.245 to the interim  committees of the Legislative
Assembly related to education no later than September 15, 2026.
SECTION 2. Section 1 of this 2025 Act is repealed on January 2, 2027.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 777