80th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2019 Regular Session
Enrolled
House Bill 2618
Sponsored by Representatives  HELM, SMITH DB, Senators ROBLAN, PROZANSKI; Representatives
FAHEY, KENY-GUYER, LEIF, LIVELY, MARSH, MCKEOWN, NOSSE, POWER,  REARDON,
SALINAS, SCHOUTEN, SOLLMAN, WILDE,  Senators BOQUIST, DEMBROW, FREDERICK,
GOLDEN, MANNING JR (Presession filed.)
CHAPTER .................................................
AN ACT
Relating to solar incentives; and prescribing an effective date.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
As used in sections 1 to 4 of this 2019 Act:
(1) “Contractor” means a person whose trade or  business consists of offering for sale
solar electric systems or paired solar and storage systems or of  providing construction, in-
stallation or design services for solar electric systems or paired solar and storage systems.
(2) “Electric utility” has the meaning given that term in ORS 757.600.
(3) “Energy storage system” means  commercially available technology that is capable of
retaining energy, storing the energy for a period of time and transmitting  the energy after
storage.
(4) “Low-income service provider” means a nonresidential customer  that provides health,
dental, social, financial, energy conservation  or other assistive services to low or moderate
income persons or low or moderate income households, as further defined by the State  De-
partment of Energy by rule.
(5) “Net cost” means the actual cost of the purchase, construction and installation of  a
solar electric system or a paired solar and storage system, minus any incentive  received for
the system from the electric utility serving the customer for which the system is installed.
(6) “Paired solar and storage  system” means a solar electric system and an energy
storage system purchased, constructed  and installed together by the same contractor and
paired such that the energy storage system provides storage capacity for  electrical energy
produced by the solar electric system.
(7) “Solar electric system” means any system, mechanism or  series of mechanisms, in-
cluding photovoltaic systems, that uses solar radiation to generate electrical energy.
SECTION 2.
(1)(a) The State Department of Energy shall adopt by  rule a program for
providing rebates for the  purchase, construction or installation of solar electric systems and
paired solar and storage systems. In adopting rules for and administering the program, the
State Department of Energy may coordinate or consult with:
(A) The Housing and Community Services Department and any other relevant state
agencies; and
(B) Entities including, but not limited to, nonprofit organizations and utilities.
Enrolled House Bill 2618 (HB 2618-B) Page 1
(b) The  State Department of Energy shall make rebates available under the program to
be claimed by a contractor that constructs or installs a  solar electric system or a paired
solar and storage  system, for a residential customer or a low-income service provider, on
real property in Oregon. A contractor that  claims a rebate under this section must use the
full amount of the rebate  to reduce the net cost to the residential customer or low-income
service provider of the purchase, construction or installation of the solar electric system  or
paired solar and storage system for which the rebate is issued.
(2) Rebates under the program shall be made from moneys credited  to the Rooftop Solar
Incentive Fund established under section 3 of this 2019 Act. A rebate may not be made unless
there are sufficient moneys available in the fund to make the rebate.
(3) Rules adopted by the  department under this section shall include but need not be
limited to:
(a) Preferences for providing  rebates that benefit low and moderate income residential
customers and nonresidential customers that are low-income service providers;
(b) Provisions for determining eligibility and verification of solar electric systems and
paired solar and storage systems for purposes of the rebate program;
(c) Policies and  procedures for the administration and enforcement of sections 1 to 4 of
this 2019 Act, which may include policies and procedures for audits and inspections; and
(d) Policies and procedures  for determining the rebate amounts available for solar elec-
tric systems and paired solar and storage systems. In determining rebates amounts, the  de-
partment:
(A) Shall calculate the  rebate amount per watt of installed capacity based on the
projected energy production of the  constructed and installed solar electric system or paired
solar and storage system over a 20-year period; and
(B) Shall take into consideration evolving market conditions.
(4) The  amount that may be claimed as a rebate under this section may not exceed the
following limits:
(a) For a system installed for a low or moderate income residential customer:
(A) 60 percent of the net cost of the solar electric system  or $5,000, whichever is less;
and
(B) If the solar electric system is part of a paired  solar and storage system, an additional
amount that is equal to 60 percent of the net cost of the energy storage system or $2,500,
whichever is less.
(b) For a system installed for a residential customer that is not low or moderate income:
(A) 40 percent of the net cost of the solar electric system  or $5,000, whichever is less;
and
(B) If the solar electric system is part of a paired  solar and storage system, an additional
amount that is equal to 40 percent of the net cost of the energy storage system or $2,500,
whichever is less.
(c) For a system installed for a low-income service provider:
(A) 50 percent of the net cost of the solar electric system  or $30,000, whichever is less;
and
(B) If the solar electric system is part of a paired  solar and storage system, an additional
amount that  is equal to 60 percent of the net cost of the energy storage system or $15,000,
whichever is less.
(5)(a) To be eligible to claim a rebate on  behalf of a customer under this section, a con-
tractor that constructs  or installs a solar electric system or a paired solar and storage sys-
tem must, at the time of the construction or installation:
(A) Hold any license, bond,  insurance or permit required to sell and construct or install
the solar electric system or paired solar and storage system; and
(B) Meet any other certification requirements set forth in rules  adopted by the depart-
ment.
Enrolled House Bill 2618 (HB 2618-B) Page 2
(b) Pursuant to  the procedures for a contested case under ORS chapter 183, the Director
of the State Department of Energy may deny or revoke a contractor’s eligibility to  claim a
rebate on behalf of a customer under this section if the director finds that:
(A) The contractor’s eligibility was obtained  by fraud or misrepresentation by the con-
tractor;
(B) The contractor’s performance for installation of solar electric systems or paired solar
and storage systems does not meet industry standards; or
(C) The contractor has misrepresented to  customers either the program established un-
der this  section or the nature or quality of the solar electric systems or paired solar electric
systems for which rebates are available.
(6) Prior to commencing installation of a solar electric system or paired solar  and stor-
age system, a contractor must apply to the department to reserve a rebate on  behalf of the
customer for whom the solar electric system or paired solar and storage system will be  in-
stalled.
(7) To claim a  rebate reserved under subsection (6) of this section, the contractor that
reserved the rebate must submit to the department verification  of the purchase, con-
struction or installation of the  solar electric system or paired solar and storage system. The
verification required by this section shall be made on a form provided by  the department and
shall contain:
(a) The location of the solar electric system or paired solar and storage system;
(b) A description of the solar electric system or paired solar and storage system;
(c) Evidence that the contractor that constructed  or installed the solar electric system
or paired solar and storage system has any license, bond, insurance or  permit and meets any
other certification requirements required for the sale and  construction or installation of the
solar electric system or paired solar and storage system;
(d) A statement signed by both the contractor  and the customer for whom the solar
electric system or paired solar  and storage system is installed that the customer has re-
ceived the full value of the rebate as a reduction in  the net cost of the purchase, con-
struction or installation of  the system and that the rebate was clearly reflected on an invoice
provided to the customer; and
(e) Any other information that the department determines is necessary.
(8)(a) Pursuant  to the procedures for a contested case under ORS chapter 183, the di-
rector may order the revocation of a rebate or portion of a rebate made under this  section
if the director finds that:
(A) The rebate was obtained by fraud or misrepresentation; or
(B) The rebate was obtained by mistake or miscalculation.
(b) As soon as the order of  revocation under this subsection becomes final, the depart-
ment immediately shall proceed to recover the rebate or portion of the rebate  that is the
subject of the order of revocation. All moneys provided to a contractor attributable to the
fraudulently or mistakenly obtained rebate or portion of the rebate shall be forfeited.
SECTION 3.
(1) The Rooftop Solar Incentive Fund is established in the State  Treasury,
separate and distinct from the General Fund. Moneys in the  Rooftop Solar Incentive Fund
shall consist of:
(a) Amounts donated to the fund;
(b) Amounts  appropriated or otherwise transferred to the fund by the Legislative As-
sembly; and
(c) Other amounts deposited into the fund from any public or private source.
(2) Moneys in the fund  are continuously appropriated to the State Department of Energy
to be used to issue rebates pursuant to section 2 of this 2019 Act  and to pay the costs and
expenses of the department related to the administration and  implementation of sections 1
to 4 of this 2019 Act.
Enrolled House Bill 2618 (HB 2618-B) Page 3
(3) Over the course of a calendar year, no more than 50  percent of moneys available for
issuing rebates from the fund may be used to issue rebates for solar electric systems  or
paired solar and storage systems constructed or installed for nonresidential customers.
(4) In each calendar year, 25 percent  of all moneys available for issuing rebates from the
fund must be reserved for rebates for solar electric  systems or paired solar and storage
systems  constructed  or installed for low or moderate income residential customers and
low-income service providers. If the  department was unable to obtain a sufficient number
of approvable applications to meet the requirements of this subsection in the previous cal-
endar year, the department may, in the current calendar year, issue rebates, in an  amount
that does not exceed the 25 percent reserved for the prior calendar  year less the amount of
rebates made to low or moderate income residential  customers and low-income service pro-
viders, to residential  customers that are not low or moderate income residential customers
or low-income service providers.
SECTION 4. (1) No later than September 15 of each year, the State Department of Energy
shall provide a report to the Legislative Assembly, in the manner provided in ORS 192.245,
on the rebates claimed under section 2 of this 2019 Act for  solar electric systems and paired
solar and storage systems during the previous calendar year.
(2) The report shall detail:
(a) The number, size and location of solar electric systems installed for  residential cus-
tomers for which a rebate was claimed;
(b) The number, size and location of solar electric  systems installed for low-income ser-
vice providers for which a rebate was claimed;
(c) The number and storage capacity of paired solar and storage  systems installed for
which a rebate was claimed; and
(d) The estimated amount of greenhouse gas emissions reduced or avoided  due to the
installation of systems for which rebates were claimed.
(3) The report shall include a review by the  department addressing whether the goals of
the rebate program are being met and recommendations on whether the  rebate amount
limits set forth in section 2 of this 2019 Act or the percentages set forth in section 3 of  this
2019 Act should be modified.
(4) The report may include recommendations for legislation.
SECTION 5.
(1) Sections 1 to 4 of this 2019 Act are repealed on January 2, 2024.
(2) Any moneys remaining in the Rooftop Solar Incentive Fund on the date of  the repeal
specified in subsection (1) of this section that are unexpended, unobligated and not subject
to any conditions shall be transferred to the General Fund.
SECTION 6.
(1) Sections 1 to 4 of this 2019 Act become operative on January 1, 2020.
(2) The State Department of Energy may adopt rules or take  any actions before the op-
erative date specified in subsection (1) of this section that are necessary to enable  the de-
partment, on and after the operative date specified  in subsection (1) of this section, to carry
out the provisions of sections 1 to 4 of this 2019 Act.
SECTION 7. This 2019 Act takes effect on the 91st day after the date  on which the 2019
regular session of the Eightieth Legislative Assembly adjourns sine die.
Enrolled House Bill 2618 (HB 2618-B) Page 4
Passed by House June 25, 2019
..................................................................................
Timothy G. Sekerak, Chief Clerk of House
..................................................................................
Tina Kotek, Speaker of House
Passed by Senate June 29, 2019
..................................................................................
Peter Courtney, President of Senate
Received by Governor:
........................M.,........................................................., 2019
Approved:
........................M.,........................................................., 2019
..................................................................................
Kate Brown, Governor
Filed in Office of Secretary of State:
........................M.,........................................................., 2019
..................................................................................
Bev Clarno, Secretary of State
Enrolled House Bill 2618 (HB 2618-B) Page 5