1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2023 Regular Session
Senate Bill 124
Printed pursuant to  Senate Interim Rule 213.28 by order of the President of the Senate in conformance with pre-
session filing rules,  indicating neither advocacy nor opposition on the part of the President (at the request
of Senate Interim Committee on Energy and Environment)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Establishes grant program within State Department  of Energy to provide grants to fund re-
placement of generators that use diesel  or fossil fuels with renewable hydrogen-fueled
generators. Directs department to prioritize awarding grants for emergency shelters  and
infrastructure, facilities and  buildings related to provision of critical public services, health care and
utilities. Appropriates moneys from General Fund to  Renewable Hydrogen-Fueled Generator Grant
Fund.
Directs department to develop planning goals for development of hydrogen production and
storage and other  hydrogen-related infrastructure. Directs department to incorporate planning goals
into updated state energy strategy.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to hydrogen.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) As used in this section:
(a)(A) “Green electrolytic hydrogen” means hydrogen produced through electrolysis.
(B) “Green electrolytic hydrogen”  does not include hydrogen manufactured using steam
reforming or any other conversion technology that  produces hydrogen from a fossil fuel
feedstock.
(b) “Renewable hydrogen” means hydrogen produced  using energy sources that do not
emit greenhouse gases.
(c) “Renewable hydrogen-fueled generator” means a backup electrical system  that uses
green electrolytic hydrogen or renewable hydrogen to generate electric power.
(2) The Renewable Hydrogen-Fueled Generator Grant Program is  established within the
State Department of Energy to  provide grants from the Renewable Hydrogen-Fueled Gener-
ator Grant  Fund established under section 2 of this 2023 Act to be used to fund the replace-
ment of backup electrical systems or generators that use diesel or other fossil fuels to
generate electric power with renewable hydrogen-fueled  generators. The department shall
give priority when awarding grants to:
(a) Buildings designated to provide emergency shelter;
(b) Infrastructure, facilities and buildings that provide critical public services;
(c) Hospitals and health care facilities; and
(d) Infrastructure,  facilities and buildings used in the provision of utilities, such as water,
sewage, energy or telecommunications.
(3) The department shall administer the grant program and establish:
(a) Grant application procedures;
(b) Criteria for grant approval; and
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1805
SB 124
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
(c) Grant amounts to be awarded.
(4) The department may adopt rules to administer the grant program.
SECTION 2.
The Renewable Hydrogen-Fueled Generator Grant Fund is established in the
State Treasury, separate and distinct from the General Fund. Interest earned  by the
Renewable Hydrogen-Fueled Generator Grant Fund shall be credited to the fund. Moneys in
the Renewable Hydrogen-Fueled Generator Grant Fund are continuously appropriated to  the
State Department of Energy for the purposes of making grants as  part of the Renewable
Hydrogen-Fueled Generator Grant Program described in section 1 of this 2023 Act.
SECTION 3. (1) The State Department of Energy  shall develop planning goals for the
development of hydrogen production and storage and other infrastructure  related to the
wide-scale adoption and use of hydrogen fuel in this state.
(2) The department shall update the state energy strategy and incorporate  the planning
goals developed under subsection (1) of this section into the state energy strategy.
SECTION 4. In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there  is appropri-
ated to the State Department of Energy, for the biennium beginning July  1, 2023, out of the
General Fund, the amount of  $5,000,000 to be deposited into the Renewable Hydrogen-Fueled
Generator Grant Fund established under section 2 of this 2023 Act.
[2]