1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
81st OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2021 Regular Session
House Bill 3101
Sponsored by COMMITTEE ON WATER (at the request of Representative Ken Helm)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Directs  Water  Resources Department to establish grant program for purposes of providing
grants for abandonment, repair or replacement of certain water wells.
Establishes Water  Well Abandonment, Repair and Replacement Revolving Fund. Continuously
appropriates moneys in fund to department for specified purposes.
Appropriates moneys from General Fund to department for  funding positions related to water
wells and establishing grant program  for purpose of providing grants for abandonment, repair or
replacement of certain water wells.
Declares emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to water wells; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Water Resources Department shall establish by rule a grant program
for purposes of providing grants for the abandonment, repair or replacement of water  wells:
(a) That, due to construction deficiencies,  may contribute to declines in ground water
levels or may serve as a  conduit for contamination or otherwise be a detriment to public
health and safety; or
(b) That  are in areas of declining ground water levels where other sources of water are
not feasible.
(2) In administering the program, the department:
(a) Shall develop criteria for receiving a grant and a process for applying for  a grant; and
(b) May require a recipient  of a grant to report to the department on the use of the grant
funds.
SECTION 2.
(1) The Water Well Abandonment, Repair and  Replacement Revolving Fund
is established, separate and distinct  from the General Fund. When requested by the Water
Resources Director, the Oregon Department of Administrative Services shall  draw a warrant
in favor of the  Water Resources Department from funds appropriated or otherwise made
available to the Water  Resources Department for purposes consistent with this section for
deposit into the revolving fund. Moneys deposited  into the revolving fund are continuously
appropriated to the Water Resources Department for  use as provided in section 1 of this 2021
Act. The revolving fund may not  exceed the aggregate sum of $ , including unreim-
bursed disbursements.
(2) The Water Resources Department may  solicit or accept moneys for deposit into the
revolving fund from  any private or public sources for use by the department for purposes
consistent with this section.
SECTION 3. There is appropriated to the Water Resources Department,  for the biennium
beginning July 1, 2021, out of the General Fund:
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1491
HB 3101
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
(1) The amount of $
 for  the purpose of funding positions for a well construction
compliance reviewer, well construction specialist and well specialist; and
(2) The amount of $  for the purpose of carrying  out the provisions of section 1
of this 2021 Act.
SECTION 4. This 2021 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist,  and this 2021 Act takes effect
on its passage.
[2]