1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 752
Sponsored by Senator GORSEK (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act would have Business Oregon look at economic plans in the other states. The
Act would have  the agency submit a report that recommends how to create a plan for Oregon.
(Flesch Readability Score: 63.6).
Requires the  Oregon Business Development Department to review statewide economic develop-
ment plans and strategies implemented in the  other states and submit a report to the Legislative
Assembly that includes  recommendations for the creation of a statewide economic development plan
for Oregon. Specifies stakeholders with  which the department shall consult in the conduct of the
study.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to statewide economic development plans.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Oregon Business Development Department shall review statewide
economic development plans and strategies implemented in the other  states. The department
shall submit a report to the  interim committees of the Legislative Assembly related to eco-
nomic development in the manner provided under ORS 192.245 no later than  September 15,
2026. The report shall include  recommendations for the creation of a statewide economic
development plan for Oregon.
(2) In conducting the study, the department shall consult  with stakeholders, including,
but not limited to, representatives of:
(a) The business community in Oregon;
(b) Economic development districts;
(c) Local economic development organizations;
(d) Labor organizations;
(e) Philanthropic organizations; and
(f) Any other stakeholders in this state that the department  considers appropriate and
useful to achieve the goals of the study.
SECTION 2.
Section 1 of this 2025 Act is repealed on January 2, 2027.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2455