1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 3387
Sponsored by COMMITTEE ON RULES (at the request of Oregon Association of County Clerks)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act allows for  certain candidates to help county clerks count ballots. (Flesch
Readability Score: 69.9).
Permits a precinct committeeperson who appears  on the ballot to volunteer as personnel to as-
sist a county clerk with counting ballots.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to precinct committeepersons counting ballots; amending ORS 254.476.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 254.476 is amended to read:
254.476. (1)(a) The county clerk may employ personnel as  necessary to open envelopes, handle
ballots, prepare ballots for counting and count ballots. The personnel may not all be members of  the
same political party.
(b) Except as provided in  paragraph (c) of this subsection,  a candidate who appears on the
ballot at an election[ , other than an incumbent candidate for county clerk, ] or a person who  is a
member of  the household, spouse, domestic partner, child, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, parent,
mother-in-law, father-in-law, sibling, brother-in-law,  sister-in-law, aunt, uncle, niece, nephew,
stepparent or stepchild of any candidate who appears on the ballot  may not be employed and may
not serve as  a volunteer [ in the capacity described in this section ] for the duties described in par-
agraph (a) of this subsection .
(c) An incumbent candidate for county clerk who appears on the ballot may be  employed,
and a precinct committeeperson who appears  on the ballot may serve as a volunteer, for the
duties described in paragraph (a) of this subsection.
(2) As used in this section, “member of the household”  has the meaning given that term in ORS
244.020.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2679