1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2023 Regular Session
House Joint Resolution 24
Sponsored by Representative CHAICHI
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Proposes amendment to Oregon Constitution to establish alternative veto  reconsideration pro-
cess by which, after new Legislative Assembly  convenes, simple majority of both houses is needed
to pass into law vetoed bill, vetoed single item in appropriation bill or vetoed emergency clause.
Refers proposed amendment to people for their approval or rejection at next  regular general
election.
JOINT RESOLUTION
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
PARAGRAPH 1.
 Sections 15a and 15b,  Article V of the Constitution of the State of Oregon,
are amended to read:
Sec. 15a.  The Governor shall have power to veto single items in appropriation  bills, and any
provision in new bills declaring an emergency, without thereby affecting  any other provision of such
bill. A veto issued under this section is subject to reconsideration as described in  subsection
(2) of section 15b of this Article.
Sec. 15b.  (1) Every bill which shall have passed the Legislative Assembly  shall, before it be-
comes a law, be presented to  the Governor; if the Governor approve, the Governor shall sign it; but
if not, the Governor shall return it with written objections to that  house in which it shall have
originated,  which  house shall enter the objections at large upon the journal and proceed to recon-
sider it.
(2) At the election of the presiding officer of the house in which the bill shall have origi-
nated and who is presiding officer at the time the Governor’s written objections are received:
(a) The question  of reconsideration shall be taken up immediately and if,  [ If,] after such
reconsideration, two-thirds of the members present shall agree to pass the bill, it shall be sent,  to-
gether with the objections, to the other house, by which it shall likewise  be reconsidered, and, if
approved by two-thirds of the members present, it shall become a  law. But in all such cases, the
votes of both houses shall be  determined by yeas and nays, and the names of the members voting
for or against the bill shall be entered on the journal of each house respectively ; or
(b) The question of reconsideration shall be laid on  the table until a new Legislative As-
sembly is convened following a regular general election and if, after such reconsideration
occurring within the first ten session days, a simple majority of the members present shall
agree to pass the bill, it shall be  sent, together with the objections, to the other house, by
which within ten session days following receipt of the bill  and objections it shall likewise be
reconsidered, and, if approved by a simple majority of the members present, it  shall become
law. The reconsideration process described in this  paragraph is not available to reconsider
a bill that was passed less than ninety days before a regular  general election or during the
period beginning on the date of  the regular general election and ending on the date of the
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 4289
HJR 24
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
convening of the new Legislative Assembly. Reconsideration of a bill that initially required
a super-majority vote for passage need only be approved by  a simple majority vote under this
paragraph.
(3) If any bill shall not be returned by the Governor within five days  (Saturdays and Sundays
excepted) after it shall have been presented to the Governor, it shall be a law without  signature,
unless the general adjournment shall prevent  its return, in which case it shall be a law, unless the
Governor within thirty days next after the adjournment (Saturdays and Sundays  excepted) shall file
such bill, with written  objections thereto, in the office of the Secretary of State, who shall lay the
same before the Legislative Assembly at its next session in like manner as if it had been  returned
by the Governor.
(4) Before filing a bill after adjournment with written objections, the Governor  must announce
publicly the possible intention to  do so at least five days before filing the bill with written ob-
jections. However, nothing in this subsection  requires the Governor to file any bill with objections
because of the announcement.
PARAGRAPH 2.
The amendment proposed by this resolution shall be submitted to  the
people for their approval or rejection  at the next regular general election held throughout
this state.
[2]