1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2761
Sponsored by Representative EVANS (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act tells ODEM to give grants to counties to hire staff to manage  disasters. (Flesch
Readability Score: 78.8).
Directs the Oregon Department of Emergency Management to  develop and implement a program
to provide grants to counties to  create and fill county-level disaster mitigation and recovery man-
ager positions. Specifies the duties of a disaster mitigation and recovery manager.
Declares an emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to county disaster recovery; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Oregon Department of Emergency Management shall  develop and
implement a program to provide grants to counties to enable each county to create and fill
a county-level position of disaster  mitigation and recovery manager to prepare for and co-
ordinate recovery after a disaster in a county.
(2) The department shall  execute grant agreements with counties specifying the duties
that a disaster mitigation and recovery manager funded by grant moneys must perform. The
duties must include:
(a) Building relationships and networks with potential  disaster recovery partners, in-
cluding the department,  the Federal Emergency Management Agency, city governments,
community organizations active in disaster and other business and community partners;
(b) Creating and  maintaining plans for mitigating natural hazards, in consultation with
the Department of Land Conservation and Development and community partners  and in
collaboration with the emergency management agency of a county;
(c) Creating and maintaining plans for community wildfire protection,  including pro-
tection from related issues such as  smoke, in consultation with the Department of Land
Conservation and Development and community  partners and in collaboration with the
emergency management agency of a county;
(d) During and after a disaster that affects a  county, managing recovery operations
within the county, including:
(A) Putting existing contracts or purchase orders into operation;
(B) Working with cities, unincorporated communities and special  districts to assess
needs and provide resources and other support; and
(C) Working with community  organizations active in disaster, long-term recovery groups
and other groups active in disaster recovery to assess local needs and direct resources to-
ward such groups; and
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2453
HB 2761
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
(e) Providing mutual aid to support other counties affected by disaster.
(3) A  county is not required to apply for or accept a grant under this section. Nothing
in this section limits or supplants any rights or powers that a county may exercise.
(4) The Oregon Department of Emergency Management may adopt rules necessary  for
the administration of this section.
SECTION 2.
This 2025 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist,  and this 2025 Act takes effect
on its passage.
[2]