1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 3122
Sponsored by Representative OWENS (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act would tell the SPRD to work to enter an agreement with federal partners to
create an access fee on a road in eastern Oregon. (Flesch Readability Score: 60.0).
Directs  the  State Parks and Recreation Department to exercise good-faith efforts to enter into
an agreement with the United  States Department of the Interior’s Bureau of Reclamation and Bu-
reau of Land Management to establish and implement an access  fee for use of Owyhee Lake Road.
Provides for certain minimum terms of the agreement.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to Owyhee Lake Road.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1)(a) The State  Parks and Recreation Department shall exercise good-faith
efforts to enter into an agreement with the United States Department  of the Interior’s Bu-
reau of Reclamation and Bureau of Land Management for the purpose of establishing  and
implementing an access fee for use of Owyhee Lake Road.
(b) Moneys received from  the access fee shall be used for the purposes of supporting
ongoing road maintenance, enhanced visitation infrastructure and essential road improve-
ments, including surface repairs and safety upgrades.
(2) The agreement described in subsection (1) of this section, at a minimum, must:
(a) Establish a committee consisting of representatives of:
(A) The State Parks and Recreation Department.
(B) The Bureau of Reclamation.
(C) The Bureau of Land Management.
(D) Malheur County.
(E) The road district, as described in ORS 371.055, in which  Owyhee Lake Road is located.
(b) Authorize the committee to set and adjust the access  fee and allocate moneys re-
ceived from the access fee for the purposes described in subsection (1) of this section.
(c) Require the committee to evaluate visitor data to assist  in setting or adjusting the
access fee, planning for future infrastructure needs  and ensuring continued road safety and
environmental stewardship.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2083