1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2436
Sponsored by Representative YUNKER; Representative WRIGHT, Senators NASH, SMITH DB (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act says that the state may not treat people in different  ways in putting them on
boards and commissions on the basis of being in some classes. The Act makes some exceptions.
(Flesch Readability Score: 79.8).
Provides that an official or agency of state government may not discriminate or  grant prefer-
ential treatment to any individual on the basis of gender identity, race, sex, color,  ethnicity or na-
tional origin in the application,  selection or appointment of individuals to boards and commissions.
Provides certain exceptions.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to appointments in state government.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) An official or agency of state government,  as defined in ORS 174.111, may
not discriminate or grant  preferential treatment to any individual on the basis of gender
identity, race, sex, color,  ethnicity or national origin in the application, selection or ap-
pointment of individuals to boards and commissions.
(2) Nothing in this  section shall be interpreted as prohibiting bona fide qualifications
based on sex that are reasonably necessary for the normal operation of boards and commis-
sions.
(3) Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as invalidating any court order or  consent
decree that is in force as of the effective date of this 2025 Act.
SECTION 2.
Section 1 of this 2025 Act applies to appointments to boards and commissions
made on or after the effective date of this 2025 Act.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 622