1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 3286
Sponsored by Representative EVANS
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act tells ODEM to help each county develop local groups  to help in emergencies.
(Flesch Readability Score: 61.8).
Directs the Oregon Department of Emergency Management to establish a liaison for  each
county to foster development of county-level organizations or networks to address emergency pre-
vention, preparedness, response and recovery.
Sunsets January 2, 2028.
Declares an emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to community organizations active in disaster; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) As used  in this section, “COAD” or “community organization active in
disaster” means an organization or network of organizations that is prepared to address
emergency prevention, preparedness, response and recovery at a local level.
(2) The Oregon Department  of Emergency Management shall develop and implement a
program to foster the development of county-level COADs in  Oregon by assigning employees
of the department to serve  as establishing COAD liaisons for Oregon counties. The depart-
ment shall assign one full-time equivalent employee as COAD liaison for each county.
(3) It is the intent of the Legislative Assembly that COAD liaisons will support the de-
velopment of county COADs into independent, self-sustaining organizations  that are capable
of operating without the involvement of a COAD liaison.
(4) COAD liaisons, subject to the direction of the department, shall:
(a) In counties that do not have existing county  COADs, coordinate the formation of
county COADs by providing structure, guidance and a forum for communication;
(b) In  counties that have existing county COADs, support and strengthen coordination
between components of the COAD;
(c) Provide technical assistance for the establishment or maintenance of  a county COAD;
(d) Build collaborative relationships with local organizations and businesses and  encour-
age their participation in a county COAD;
(e) Build relationships with local government partners and related associations;
(f) Address needs of nongovernmental and voluntary organizations and their clients  to
improve service delivery;
(g) Support coordination of receipt and delivery of donated resources;
(h) Provide support and guidance to  long-term recovery groups operating within the
county, and support the formation of such a group if none is operating;
(i) Support COAD liaisons in other counties through a mutual aid system; and
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2987
HB 3286
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
(j) Foster  communication, relationships and coordination between a county COAD and
the emergency management agency of  the county and long-term recovery groups operating
in the county.
SECTION 2.
Section 1 of this 2025 Act is repealed on January 2, 2028.
SECTION 3. In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there  is appropri-
ated to the Oregon Department of  Emergency Management, for the biennium beginning July
1, 2025, out of the General Fund,  the amount of $___ for the purpose of carrying out the
provisions of section 1 of this 2025 Act.
SECTION 4. This 2025 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist,  and this 2025 Act takes effect
on its passage.
[2]