1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 910
Sponsored by Senator GELSER BLOUIN
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Makes students and school coaches learn about and respond to cardiac events.  (Flesch
Readability Score: 60.7).
Prescribes requirements for sharing information, training and guidelines  for student athletes
related to symptoms of a cardiac event.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to cardiac events of student athletes.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) As used in this section:
(a) “Coach” means a person who  instructs or trains members of a school athletic team,
as identified by criteria established by the State Board of Education by rule.
(b) “School athletic team” means any athletic  team that participates in interscholastic
athletics or that is sponsored  by or associated with a school district, as determined based
on criteria established by the board by rule.
(c) “Symptoms of a cardiac event’” means fainting  or seizures during exercise, unex-
plained shortness of breath, chest pains, dizziness, racing heart rate or extreme fatigue.
(2) The Department of Education shall develop guidelines and make available information
about cardiac events that may affect student athletes, including the symptoms of a  cardiac
event and the risks  associated with continuing to participate in any athletic event or training
after experiencing symptoms of a cardiac event.
(3) Before the beginning of the season for each school athletic team, a school district:
(a) Shall require each student on the school athletic team, and the student’s parent  or
guardian, to acknowledge receipt and review of the information  described in subsection (2)
of this section; and
(b) May hold  an informational meeting for students, parents, guardians and coaches re-
garding the information described in subsection (2) of this section.
(4)(a) Each school district shall ensure that each coach of  a school athletic team receives
annual training to learn how to recognize the symptoms of a cardiac event and  how to seek
proper medical treatment for a student who is suspected of having a cardiac event.
(b) The board shall establish by rule:
(A) The requirements for the training  described in paragraph (a) of this subsection,
which may include using educational materials made publicly available at no cost to  educate
coaches about sudden cardiac arrest.
(B) Timelines to ensure  that, to the extent practicable, every coach receives the training
described in paragraph (a) of  this subsection before the beginning of the season for the
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1463
SB 910
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
school athletic team.
(5)(a) Until a medical  release has been provided by a qualified health care professional,
as identified by the board by rule, a coach shall prohibit a student who is a member  of a
school athletic team from participating in any athletic event or training if the student:
(A) Faints during, or immediately following, participation in any athletic  event or train-
ing; or
(B) Is known to have fainted during, or immediately following, participation  in any ath-
letic event or training.
(b) Except as provided by paragraph (a) of this subsection, a coach may choose  to pro-
hibit a student who is a member of a school athletic team from participating in any  athletic
event or training until:
(A) The student receives a medical release from  a qualified health care professional, as
identified by the board by rule; or
(B) An athletic  trainer licensed by the Board of Athletic Trainers determines that the
student may continue to participate in any athletic event or training.
(6) A coach who observes a student who is a member of  an athletic team having any
symptoms of a cardiac event shall immediately notify the  parent or guardian of the student
of the observation.
SECTION 2.
Section 1 of this 2025 Act first applies to the 2026-2027 school year.
SECTION 3. (1) Section 1 of this 2025 Act becomes operative on July 1, 2026.
(2) Notwithstanding the operative date set forth in subsection (1)  of this section, the
Department of Education, the State Board of Education and school districts  may take any
action before the operative date set forth in subsection (1) of this section that is  necessary
to ensure compliance with the provisions of section  1 of this 2025 Act beginning with the
2026-2027 school year.
[2]