1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
80th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2019 Regular Session
Senate Bill 252
Printed pursuant to  Senate Interim Rule 213.28 by order of the President of the Senate in conformance with pre-
session filing rules,  indicating neither advocacy nor opposition on the part of the President (at the request
of Governor Kate Brown for Oregon Military Department)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Prohibits Oregon Military Department from incurring expense that  is reimbursable under coop-
erative agreement with federal  National Guard Bureau unless department has available moneys
sufficient to meet expense.
Authorizes  State  Treasurer to create accounts or subaccounts and adopt rules to maintain el-
igibility to receive advance funding under cooperative agreement with federal bureau.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to federal moneys received by the Oregon Military Department.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
The Oregon Military Department may not incur an expense that is
reimbursable in whole or in part from federal moneys under a cooperative agreement with
the federal National Guard Bureau unless moneys sufficient  to meet the expense are avail-
able in the State Treasury and:
(1) Are available for expenditure by the department; and
(2) Are not committed or encumbered for any other purpose.
SECTION 2.
The State Treasurer may create accounts or subaccounts in the  General
Fund and adopt rules  as necessary to maintain the eligibility of this state to receive advance
payments under cooperative agreements with the federal National Guard Bureau.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 408