1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Joint Resolution 4
Printed pursuant to  Senate Interim Rule 213.28 by order of the President of the Senate in conformance with pre-
session filing rules,  indicating neither advocacy nor opposition on the part of the President (at the request
of Senate Interim Committee on Finance and Revenue)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Resolves that the rate of any motor vehicle fuel tax  must be indexed to inflation. (Flesch
Readability Score: 61.8).
Proposes an amendment to the Oregon Constitution  providing that the Legislative Assembly
shall provide by law for indexing the rate of any motor vehicle fuel tax to inflation.
Refers the proposed amendment to the people for their approval or rejection at the next regular
general election.
JOINT RESOLUTION
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
PARAGRAPH 1.
 The Constitution of the State of Oregon is amended by creating a new  section
3c to be added to and made a part of Article IX, such section to read:
SECTION 3c. (1) This  section applies to any tax that is imposed on or with respect to,
or measured by, motor vehicle fuel.
(2) The Legislative Assembly  shall provide by law for a method of adjusting the rate of
such a tax for inflation by reference to a consumer price index.
PARAGRAPH 2. The amendment proposed by this resolution shall be submitted to  the
people for their approval or rejection  at the next regular general election held throughout
this state.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2340