1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 3624
Sponsored by Representative OWENS; Representatives HARBICK, MCINTIRE
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Requires ESDs to pay fees for certain tests that homeschooled children must take.
(Flesch Readability Score: 76.5).
Directs education service districts to reimburse parents  and legal guardians for fees incurred
by parents and legal guardians related to examinations administered to homeschooled children.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to  examinations administered to homeschooled children; creating new provisions; and
amending ORS 339.035.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 339.035 is amended to read:
339.035. (1) As used in this section, “education  service district” means the education service
district that contains the school district of which the child is a resident.
(2) When a child is taught or is withdrawn from a public school to be taught by a  parent, legal
guardian or private teacher, as provided  in ORS 339.030, the parent, legal guardian or private
teacher must notify the education service district in writing. In  addition, when a child who is taught
by a parent, legal guardian or private teacher moves to a new education  service district, the parent,
legal guardian  or private teacher shall notify the new education service district in writing. The ed-
ucation service district shall acknowledge receipt of any notification in writing.
(3) Children being taught as provided in  subsection (2) of this section shall be examined at
grades 3, 5, 8 and 10 in accordance with the following procedures:
(a) The State Board of Education shall adopt  by rule a list of approved comprehensive exam-
inations that are readily available.
(b)(A) The parent or legal guardian shall select an examination from  the approved list and ar-
range to  have the examination administered to the child by a qualified neutral person, as defined
by rule by the State Board of Education.  Any fees incurred by the parent or  legal guardian for
an examination or the administration of an examination shall be reimbursed by the education
service district.
(B) If the child was withdrawn from public school, the  first examination shall be administered
to the child at least 18 months  after the date on which the child was withdrawn from public school.
(C) If the child  never attended public or private school, the first examination shall be adminis-
tered to the child prior to the end of grade three.
(c) The person administering the examination shall:
(A) Score the examination; and
(B) Report the results of the examination to the parent or legal guardian.
(d) Upon  request of the superintendent of the education service district, the parent or legal
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 4264
HB 3624
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
guardian shall submit the results of the examination to the education service district.
(4)(a) If the composite test score  of the child places the child below the 15th percentile based
on national norms, the child shall be given an additional examination within one  year of when the
first examination was administered.
(b) If the composite test score  of the child on the second examination shows a declining score,
then the  child shall be given an additional examination within one year of when the second exam-
ination was administered and the superintendent of the education service district may:
(A) Allow the child to continue to be taught by a parent, legal guardian or private teacher; or
(B) Place the education of the child under the supervision of  a person holding a teaching license
who is selected by the parent or legal guardian at the expense of the parent  or legal guardian. If
the composite test score of the child continues to show a declining score, the  superintendent of the
education service district may:
(i) Allow the child to continue under the educational supervision of a  licensed teacher selected
by the parent or legal guardian and require that  the child be given an additional examination within
one year of when the last examination was administered;
(ii) Allow the child to be taught by a  parent, legal guardian or private teacher and require that
the child be given an  additional examination within one year of when the last examination was ad-
ministered; or
(iii) Order the parent or legal guardian to send the  child to school for a period not to exceed
12 consecutive months as determined by the superintendent.
(c) If the parent or legal guardian of the child does not consent to placing the education of  the
child under the supervision of a licensed teacher who is selected  by the parent or legal guardian,
then the superintendent of  the education service district may order the child to return to school for
a period not to exceed 12 consecutive months as determined by the superintendent.
(d) If the composite test score of the child on an examination is equal to or greater than the
percentile score on the prior test, the child may be taught by a parent, legal guardian or private
teacher and for the next examination be examined pursuant  to paragraph (a) of this subsection or
subsection (3) of this section.
(5)(a) Notwithstanding the examination requirements  of subsections (3) and (4) of this section,
the parent or legal guardian of a child with a disability who has an individualized education pro-
gram and is receiving special  education and related services through the school district or who is
being educated in accordance with a privately developed plan shall  be evaluated for satisfactory
educational progress according to the recommendations of the program or plan.
(b) The parent or legal guardian of a  child with a disability who was evaluated by service pro-
viders selected by  the parent or legal guardian based on a privately developed plan shall submit a
report of such evaluation to  the education service district in lieu of the examination results required
by subsections (3) and (4) of this section.
(c) A  child with a disability described in this subsection may not be subject to the examination
requirements of  subsections (3) and (4) of this section unless the examination is recommended in the
program or plan in effect for the child.
SECTION 2.
The amendments to ORS 339.035 by section 1 of this 2025 Act apply to  ex-
penses incurred on or after the effective date of this 2025 Act.
[2]