1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
81st OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2021 Regular Session
Senate Bill 95
Printed pursuant to  Senate Interim Rule 213.28 by order of the President of the Senate in conformance with pre-
session filing rules,  indicating neither advocacy nor opposition on the part of the President (at the request
of Governor Kate Brown for Oregon Liquor Control Commission)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Authorizes Oregon Liquor Control Commission to create data and analysis regarding commer-
cial sales and  commercial industries. Authorizes commission to contract for services related to
creating, marketing, selling or  licensing use of data and analysis. Provides for disposition of moneys
received from selling or licensing use of data and analysis.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to Oregon Liquor Control Commission information marketing.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Oregon Liquor Control Commission may create reports and  analysis
of commission data regarding commercial  sales and commercial industries. The commission
may market, sell, license the  use of or offer other forms of value-added access to data and
analysis described in this subsection to private entities.
(2) The commission may enter into  contracts with private entities for the entities to
capture and compile commission data  to create reports and analysis regarding commercial
sales and commercial industries.
(3) Commission data that a private entity captures or compiles  under a contract de-
scribed in subsection (2) of this section is proprietary information of the commission.
(4) The commission may enter into contracts with private entities for the entities to ac-
cept payments from sales or licenses for use of data and analysis  described in subsection (1)
of this section or any systems,  processes or business models developed from that data or
analysis. Payments that the commission  or a private entity accepts from sales or licenses
under this section:
(a) Related to alcohol data and analysis shall be remitted for  crediting as provided under
ORS 471.805.
(b) Related to cannabis data and analysis shall be remitted for crediting to the  Marijuana
Control and Regulation Fund.
(5) The commission shall ensure that data and  analysis that the commission sells or li-
censes for use are in a format that preserves anonymity of the source and do  not contain
personally identifiable information.
(6) The commission may adopt rules to:
(a) Ensure that personally identifiable information is not included in data or analysis;
(b) Control the use of data and analysis; and
(c) Establish prices or fees for the purchasing of, or other access to, data and analysis.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 664