1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 330
Sponsored by Senator GOLDEN; Representative GAMBA (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Directs the PUC to adopt standards to require that power lines be  placed underground.
Provides for exceptions. (Flesch Readability Score: 63.8).
Directs the Public Utility Commission to adopt  standards requiring the underground placement
of electric power lines. Provides for exceptions.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to the placement of utility lines.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
Section 2 of this 2025 Act is added to and made a part of ORS chapter 758.
SECTION 2. (1) In addition to the standards adopted by the Public Utility  Commission
under ORS 757.035,  the commission shall adopt by rule standards for requiring the under-
ground placement of electric power lines.
(2) The standards adopted under this section must:
(a) Require the underground placement of an electric power line if a person is:
(A) Placing a new electric power line; or
(B) Replacing an overhead electric power line that is functionally  obsolete, damaged or
destroyed; and
(b) Provide for  criteria that the commission may use to determine whether to grant an
exception to the requirements under paragraph (a) of this subsection.
(3)(a) A person may apply to the commission for an  exception to the standards adopted
under this section for a proposal to place or replace an electric power line.
(b) In determining whether to grant an exception,  the commission shall take into con-
sideration the cost of placing an electric power line underground compared  to the cost of
placing the electric power line overhead.
(c) Except as provided in subsection (4)  of this section, the commission may not grant
an exception for the sole reason that the cost of placing an  electric power line underground
is greater than the cost of placing the electric power line overhead.
(d) An exception may be granted for all or part of a proposal  to place or replace an
electric power line.
(4) The commission shall grant an exception under this section if:
(a) The incremental  cost of placing an electric power line underground is 
percent or greater than the incremental cost of placing the electric power line overhead; or
(b) A person is placing a new electric power line and the cost of acquiring an under-
ground right of way is  percent or greater than the cost of acquiring the over-
head right of way.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1340
SB 330
1
[2]