1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Joint Resolution 29
Sponsored by Senator PHAM K, Representatives  GOMBERG, SOSA, Senator GOLDEN; Senators CAMPOS,
GELSER BLOUIN, PROZANSKI, Representatives ANDERSEN, CHAICHI, GAMBA,  GRAYBER, HARTMAN,
NATHANSON, NGUYEN H, NOSSE (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The measure  asks voters to change how many members of the legislature are needed for
it to meet, from 2/3 of members to 1/2 of members plus one. (Flesch Readability Score: 63.5).
Proposes an amendment  to the Oregon Constitution to require a majority of each house of the
Legislative Assembly to be present to conduct business.
Refers the proposed amendment to the people for their approval or rejection at the next regular
general election.
JOINT RESOLUTION
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
PARAGRAPH 1.
 Section 12, Article IV  of the Constitution of the State of Oregon, is amended
to read:
Sec. 12.  [ Two thirds ] A majority  of each house shall [ constitute a quorum ] be necessary  to do
business, but a smaller number may meet; adjourn from day to day, and  compel the attendance of
absent members. A [ quorum] majority  being in attendance, if either house fail to effect an organ-
ization within the first five days thereafter, the members of the house so failing shall be  entitled to
no compensation from the  end of the said five days until an organization shall have been
effected.[ -]
PARAGRAPH 2. The amendment proposed by this resolution shall be submitted to the
people for their approval or rejection at the next  regular general election held throughout
this state.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1350