1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
80th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2019 Regular Session
House Joint Resolution 23
Sponsored by Representative EVANS
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Proposes amendment to  Oregon Constitution imposing tax on property, providing that tax is not
subject  to  sections 11 or 11b, Article XI, of Oregon Constitution, providing that revenues from tax
must be deposited  in emergency resilience fund, providing that moneys in fund may be used only for
emergency resilience projects, and repealing provisions June 30, 2040.
Refers proposed amendment  to people for their approval or rejection at next regular general
election.
JOINT RESOLUTION
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
PARAGRAPH 1.  The Constitution of the State of Oregon is amended by creating a new  section
16 to be added to and made part of Article XI, such section to read:
SECTION 16. (1) There is imposed a tax on each unit of property in this state at a rate
of $1 per $1,000 of the property’s real market value.
(2) The tax imposed by this section is not subject to sections 11 or 11b of this Article.
(3) The Department of Revenue, or its successor agency, shall administer the tax imposed
by this section. The Legislative  Assembly shall determine by law the manner of adminis-
tration of the tax.
(4) The Legislative Assembly may, by law, exempt property  from taxation under this
section.
(5) Revenues from the tax imposed by this section must be  deposited in an emergency
resilience fund created by the Legislative Assembly. Earnings on moneys in the fund  must
be deposited in the fund. The Legislative Assembly may  deposit other moneys or revenues
in the fund. The Legislative Assembly shall by law develop and  implement a program for the
award of grants  or loans from the fund. Moneys in the fund may be used only for emergency
resilience projects.
(6) At least  once per biennium, the state agency or agencies charged with administration
of the emergency resilience fund shall report to the Legislative Assembly on the amounts
and purposes of expenditures from the fund.
(7) As used in this section, “emergency resilience projects”:
(a) Means projects performed to anticipate or reduce risks to  property and health re-
sulting from disasters  including but not limited to earthquakes, landslides, avalanches,
volcanic eruptions, floods or other hydrological disasters, storms or other meteorological
disasters, wildfires and attack.
(b) Includes, without limitation:
(A) Construction,  rehabilitation and maintenance of facilities or public spaces for disaster
planning, preparedness, mitigation, response and recovery; and
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1818
HJR 23
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
(B) Support for essential support function missions coordinated or recognized by a fed-
eral agency.
(c) Does not include projects required to  meet minimum standards imposed by applicable
building codes or other applicable law.
(8) The prohibition on declarations of emergency under section 1a, Article IX of this
Constitution, does not apply to acts required or authorized under this section.
(9) This section is repealed June 30, 2040. Any moneys remaining in the emergency
resilience fund on the date of repeal of this section, and all  moneys that would have been
deposited in the fund had this section stayed in  effect, shall be transferred to and deposited
in the General Fund to be available for general governmental purposes.
PARAGRAPH 2. The amendment proposed by this resolution shall be submitted to  the
people for their approval or rejection  at the next regular general election held throughout
this state.
[2]