1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 3170
Sponsored by Representative MARSH, Senator PHAM K, Representative TRAN (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act makes  changes to laws about networks that help people prepare for and respond
to disasters. (Flesch Readability Score: 65.1).
Modifies the definitions of and grant requirements for Resilience  Hubs and Resilience Networks.
Appropriates moneys from the General Fund to  the Department of Human Services for providing
grants for Resilience Hubs and Resilience Networks.
Declares an emergency, effective July 1, 2025.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to community resilience; creating new provisions; amending ORS 409.760;  and declaring an
emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 409.760 is amended to read:
409.760. (1) As used in this section:
(a) “Resilience Hub” means a physical facility that is  created,  operated, managed  or supported
by one  or more local residents, local governments, tribal governments, public schools, community-
based organizations, faith-based organizations, nonprofit  organizations , [ or] nongovernmental organ-
izations or any other group or entity located in Oregon,  and that:
(A) Supports the needs of community members or  tribal communities, facilitates gathering and
communication, distributes resources and otherwise enhances quality of life within a community;
(B) Serves as a central point for gathering, information sharing, and coordination  in response
to a disruption in the community;
(C) Enhances the ability  of a community to respond to and recover from a disruption in a com-
munity;
(D) Is positioned, operated and resourced on a day-to-day basis , during a disruption and during
recovery, to provide community resources, including but not limited to food,  water, information
exchange, electronic charging stations,  basic medical supplies and equipment proportionate to the
size of the community’s population and needs;
(E) Supports community  cache sites and other support for community members who shelter in
place;
(F) Can provide child care, training, food distribution and other  services that can help a com-
munity respond to unmet [ social] needs to prepare for, respond to and  recover from adverse events,
emergencies or  disasters;
(G) Can provide, or can be retrofitted to provide, heating, cooling, air filtration and weather
protection; and
(H) Accommodates individuals with accessibility needs.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1210
HB 3170
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
(b) “Resilience Network” means an association of  facilities, organizations, resource providers
or service  providers [ outside of a physical Resilience Hub facility that collectively serve the purposes
of a Resilience Hub ] that collectively  supports community members to prepare for, adapt to
or respond to social, emotional and physical disruption generated by ongoing climate  change
or other causes, and during and after an adverse event, emergency or disaster .
(2) The Department of Human  Services shall, in consultation with the State Department of En-
ergy and the Oregon Health Authority, provide  grants, [ support and technical assistance for ] equip-
ment, technical assistance, contracted services  and any other type of support to individuals
or organizations located in Oregon for creating  or sustaining  Resilience Hubs and Resilience
Networks in Oregon. The Department of Human Services shall award:
(a) Grants for expenses related to  planning and organizing Resilience Hubs and Resilience
Networks;
(b) Grants to support and expand development  and operation of Resilience Hubs and Resilience
Networks to ensure that physical facilities can  provide protection from extreme weather, can
maintain power and climate during power outages, have auxiliary  communications capabilities and
are resilient following earthquakes, fires,  tornadoes, floods, other extreme weather events and other
potential adverse events, emergencies or  disasters[ , emergencies or incidents ]; and
(c) Grants for resources and services needed by communities to otherwise prepare for and  re-
spond to adverse events, emergencies or  disasters.
(3) Individuals or organizations located in Oregon and serving people in this state  may apply
for grants by submitting an application that must include:
(a) A description of the purposes for which grant  moneys will be expended , including a de-
scription of the services to be provided to the  community by the Resilience Hub or Resilience
Network;
(b) A plan for implementing specific strategies to build resilience in a community;
(c) A description of additional  resources available for purposes of the Resilience Hub or
Resilience Network;
(d) A description of the project’s ability to serve vulnerable populations and  communities tradi-
tionally underrepresented in the public process,  including communities of color, communities expe-
riencing  lower  incomes, tribal communities, rural communities, coastal communities, communities
with limited infrastructure, seniors, youth and persons with disabilities; and
(e) Any other information required by the department.
(4) The department shall execute  grant agreements with grant recipients obligating recipients
to use grant moneys for purposes specified in the grant agreements. The  department, in consultation
with the State Department of Energy and the Oregon Health Authority, shall  determine the per-
missible purposes , applicant eligibility requirements, types of awards  for a grant  and eligible
equipment, technical assistance, services and  support under this section based on the needs of
the Resilience Hub or Resilience Network. The department shall determine the needs  of the
Resilience Hub or Resilience Network in consultation with the community, including populations
described in subsection (3)(d) of this section, within the locality in which the  Resilience Hub or
Resilience Network operates.
(5) The Department of Human Services shall adopt rules necessary for the  administration of this
section, including specifying the form and contents of an application for a grant under this section.
SECTION 2.
In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there is appropri-
ated to the Department of Human Services,  for the biennium beginning July 1, 2025, out of
[2]
HB 3170
1
2
3
4
5
6
the General Fund, the amount of $10,000,000, which may be expended to  provide grants under
ORS 409.760.
SECTION 3.
This 2025 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the  public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is  declared to exist, and this 2025 Act takes effect
July 1, 2025.
[3]