1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2024 Regular Session
House Bill 4114
Sponsored by Representative SANCHEZ; Representatives BOICE,  FAHEY, GOMBERG, HARTMAN, HELM, HIEB,
LEVY B, LIVELY, MARSH, NATHANSON, OWENS, PHAM H,  WALTERS, Senators DEMBROW,
FREDERICK, GOLDEN, HANSELL, STEINER (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act changes current laws about  where police may take a person who is in public
while on drugs or drunk. The  Act expands how long a person may be held after being given an
opioid reversal drug. (Flesch Readability Score: 71.7).
Permits a police officer to take a person who is publicly intoxicated  or under the influence of
controlled substances, but who is not incapacitated, to their dwelling or,  if the person is unable to
identify a dwelling, to a treatment facility or sobering facility. Allows  a person who has recently
received  an  opioid reversal medication to be admitted to a treatment facility or sobering facility
until the person  is medically stable and has had a reasonable opportunity to engage in case man-
agement, or 72 hours after admission, whichever occurs first.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to behavioral health; amending ORS 430.399.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 430.399 is amended to read:
430.399. [(1) Any person who is intoxicated or under  the influence of controlled substances in a
public place may be sent home or taken to a  sobering facility or to a treatment facility by a police of-
ficer. If the person is incapacitated, the person shall be taken by the police officer to an  appropriate
treatment facility or  sobering facility. If the health of the person appears to be in immediate danger,
or the police officer has reasonable cause to believe the person is dangerous to  self or to any other
person, the person shall  be taken by the police officer to an appropriate treatment facility or sobering
facility. A person  shall be deemed incapacitated when in the opinion of the police officer the person is
unable to make a rational decision as to acceptance of assistance. ]
(1) A person shall be deemed incapacitated under this section when the  person is unable
to make a rational decision as to whether to accept assistance.
(2)(a) If a police officer encounters in a public place a person who is intoxicated or  who
is under the influence of controlled substances,  but who the police officer reasonably believes
is not incapacitated, the police officer or the police officer’s designee may  take the person
to:
(A) The person’s dwelling, if the person is able to identify a dwelling; or
(B) An appropriate treatment facility or sobering facility.
(b) If a police officer encounters  in a public place a person who is intoxicated, who is
under the  influence of controlled substances or who the police officer reasonably believes
recently received an opioid reversal medication, the police  officer or the police officer’s
designee shall take the person to a treatment facility or sobering facility, if the  police officer
reasonably believes:
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 120
HB 4114
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
(A) The person received an opioid reversal medication within the last four hours;
(B) The person is incapacitated;
(C) The health of the person is in imminent danger; or
(D) The person is dangerous to self or to any other person.
[(2)] (3)(a)  When a person is taken to a treatment facility, the director of  the treatment facility
shall determine whether the  person shall be admitted as a patient, referred to another treatment
facility [ or a ], referred to a sobering facility or denied referral or admission.
(b) If the person  is incapacitated or the health of the person appears to be in [ immediate] im-
minent danger,  or if the director has reasonable cause to believe the person is dangerous to self
or to any other person, the person must be admitted.  [The person shall be discharged within 48 hours
unless the person has applied for voluntary admission to the treatment facility. ]
(c) Unless the person has applied for voluntary admission to the treatment facility:
(A) The person must be discharged within 48 hours; or
(B) If  the person was admitted to the treatment facility due to the recent administration
of an opioid reversal medication, the person may be held until the earlier of the following:
(i) The director of the treatment  facility determines that the person is medically stable
and the person has had a reasonable opportunity to engage in case management; or
(ii) 72 hours after admission.
[(3)] (4)(a)  When a person is taken to a sobering facility, the staff of the sobering  facility shall,
consistent with the facility’s comprehensive written policies and procedures,  determine whether or
not the person shall be admitted into the sobering facility.
(b)(A) A person who is admitted shall  be discharged from the  sobering facility within  24
hours[.]; or
(B) If the person was admitted to the sobering facility due to the recent administration
of an opioid reversal medication, the person may be held until the earlier of the following:
(i) The staff of the sobering facility determine that the person is medically  stable and the
person has had a reasonable opportunity to engage in case management; or
(ii) 72 hours after admission.
(5)(a) If a person was taken to the treatment facility or sobering facility due to a  recent
administration of an opioid reversal medication and the person is not admitted due to ad-
ministrative or  staffing issues at the treatment facility or sobering facility, the police officer
or the police officer’s designee shall  take the person to an appropriate treatment facility or
sobering facility or, if none, to a hospital.
[(4)] (b) Except as provided in paragraph (a) of this subsection,  in the absence of any ap-
propriate treatment facility or sobering facility, or if a sobering  facility determines that a person
should not be admitted to the sobering facility, an  intoxicated person or a person under the influ-
ence of controlled substances  who would otherwise be taken by the police officer to a treatment
facility or sobering facility may be taken to the  city or county jail where the person may be held
until no longer intoxicated, under the influence of controlled substances or incapacitated.
[(5)] (6)  An intoxicated person or person under the influence of controlled substances,  when
taken into custody by the police officer for a criminal offense, shall immediately  be taken to the
nearest appropriate treatment facility when the condition  of the person requires emergency medical
treatment.
[(6)] (7) The records of a person at a treatment facility or sobering facility may not, without the
person’s consent, be revealed to any person other than the director and staff of the treatment  fa-
[2]
HB 4114
1
2
3
4
cility or sobering facility. A person’s request that no disclosure be made  of admission to a treatment
facility or sobering facility shall be honored unless the person is incapacitated  or disclosure of ad-
mission is required by ORS 430.397.
[3]