1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
81st OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2021 Regular Session
House Bill 2571
Sponsored by Representative MARSH, Senator DEMBROW, Representative OWENS; Representatives HELM,
REARDON, Senators FREDERICK, GOLDEN (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced.
Directs Department of Consumer and Business Services, in consultation  with State Forestry
Department, Oregon  State University and Oregon Prescribed Fire Council, to study liability for
prescribed fires. Requires Department of Consumer  and Business Services to report to appropriate
committee or interim committee of Legislative Assembly on results of study no  later than July 1,
2022.
Takes effect on 91st day following adjournment sine die.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to liability for prescribed fires; and prescribing an effective date.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Department of Consumer and Business Services, in consultation with
the State Forestry Department, Oregon State University and the Oregon  Prescribed Fire
Council, shall study liability for prescribed fires. The study shall examine:
(a) The accessibility of insurance coverage for prescribed fires, including insurance  pre-
mium costs, the number of companies  that offer the coverage and whether companies that
offer the coverage impose minimum equipment requirements;
(b) Any barriers to increasing the accessibility of  insurance coverage for prescribed fires,
including whether a liability standard of negligence or gross negligence for prescribed fires
makes the coverage more or less affordable;
(c) How often escaped prescribed fires occur, how many acres  escaped prescribed fires
consume, costs associated  with suppressing escaped prescribed fires, costs associated with
property damage caused by escaped prescribed  fires and how states pay for suppression of
escaped prescribed fires; and
(d) Which states have adopted liability standards of negligence  and gross negligence for
prescribed fires and whether states that  have shifted a liability standard from negligence to
gross negligence have subsequently observed differences in numbers  of prescribed fires con-
ducted, of acres burned in prescribed fires or of escaped prescribed fires.
(2) The  Department of Consumer and Business Services shall report to an appropriate
committee or interim committee of the  Legislative Assembly on the results of the study no
later than July 1, 2022.
SECTION 2. Section 1 of this 2021 Act is repealed on January 2, 2023.
SECTION 3. This 2021 Act takes effect on the 91st day after the date on  which the 2021
regular session of the Eighty-first Legislative Assembly adjourns sine die.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2798