81st OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2022 Regular Session
Enrolled
House Bill 4156
Sponsored by JOINT COMMITTEE ON WAYS AND MEANS
CHAPTER .................................................
AN ACT
Relating to state financial administration; creating new provisions; amending ORS 284.793 and
401.536 and section 4, chapter 17, Oregon Laws 2020 (first special session);  and declaring an
emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
BROADBAND FUND
SECTION 1.  Section 4, chapter 17, Oregon Laws  2020 (first special session), is amended to read:
Sec. 4.  The Broadband Fund is established, separate and distinct from the General  Fund. In-
terest earned by the Broadband Fund shall be credited to the fund. Moneys in the Broadband  Fund
are continuously appropriated to the Oregon Business Development Department to be  used only for
providing  grants  or loans through, or for administering, the Oregon Broadband Office and the pro-
gram established  by rule under section 5 [ of this 2020 special session Act ], chapter 17, Oregon Laws
2020 (first special session) . The  fund shall consist of moneys deposited in the fund pursuant to ORS
759.425 and moneys appropriated or transferred to the fund by the Legislative Assembly .
STATE FORESTRY DEPARTMENT
SECTION 2. Sections 3 and 4 of this 2022 Act are added  to and made a part of ORS
chapter 526.
SECTION 3. (1) The State Forestry Department Cash Flow Repayment Fund is  estab-
lished in the State Treasury, separate and distinct  from the General Fund. The State
Forestry Department Cash Flow Repayment Fund consists of  moneys deposited in the fund
by the State Forestry Department pursuant to subsection (2) of  this section. Moneys in the
fund are continuously appropriated to the department for the purposes set forth in sub-
section (3) of this section.
(2)(a) When the State Forestry Department determines that moneys are available to  the
department in an amount greater than necessary to satisfy the  current cash flow needs of
the department, the department shall deposit excess amounts in  the State Forestry Depart-
ment Cash Flow Repayment Fund, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this subsection.
(b) The  department is not required to deposit moneys in the fund if the balance of the
fund is equal  to or greater than the outstanding balance of moneys appropriated, allocated
or otherwise made available to the department specifically for cash flow purposes.
Enrolled House Bill 4156 (HB 4156-A) Page 1
(c) The moneys deposited in the fund under this subsection shall not  be considered as a
budget item on which a limitation is otherwise fixed by law, but shall  be in addition to any
specific biennial appropriations or amounts authorized to be  expended from continuously
appropriated moneys for any biennial period.
(3) On July 1 of each odd-numbered year, the department  shall cause the balance of the
fund to be transferred to the General Fund for general governmental purposes.
SECTION 4. On or before March 31 of  each odd-numbered year, the State Forestry De-
partment shall report to the standing or interim Joint Committee on  Ways and Means on
the following matters:
(1) The amounts  appropriated, allocated or otherwise made available to the department
specifically for cash flow purposes, both within the current biennium and cumulatively;
(2) The amounts deposited in the State Forestry Department Cash  Flow Repayment Fund
pursuant to section 3 (2) of this 2022 Act, both  within the current biennium and cumula-
tively;
(3) The current balance of the fund; and
(4) The amount currently in use by the department for cash flow purposes.
OREGON LOCAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE
LOAN AND GRANT ACCOUNT
SECTION 5.
 ORS 401.536 is amended to read:
401.536. (1) The  Oregon Local Disaster Assistance Loan and Grant Account is established as
an account in the Oregon Disaster Response Fund. The account  consists of moneys appropriated by
the Legislative Assembly and any other moneys deposited into the account pursuant to law.
(2) Moneys in the account are continuously appropriated  to the Oregon Department of Emer-
gency Management for:
(a) Providing loans to [ local governments, as defined in ORS 174.116, and school districts ] quali-
fied recipients to match, either  in full or in part, moneys from federal programs for federally de-
clared disaster relief that require a match;
(b) Providing loans and grants to  [ local governments, as defined in ORS 174.116, and school dis-
tricts] qualified recipients, for the purpose of paying costs incurred by [ local governments and school
districts] qualified recipients in response to federally declared disasters;
(c) Providing loans and grants to [ local governments, as defined  in ORS 174.116, and school dis-
tricts] qualified recipients  for the purposes of paying costs incurred by [ local governments and
school districts ] qualified recipients in response to disasters that are not  federally declared disas-
ters, as determined by the Legislative Assembly, if all loans  and grants provided under paragraphs
(a) and  (b) of this subsection have been repaid, fulfilled or otherwise satisfied and moneys remain
in the account; and
(d) Subject to  subsection (5) of this section, paying the department’s expenses for administering
loans made from the account under paragraph (a) of this subsection.
(3) Loans made under subsection (2)(b) or (c) of this section  shall be repaid pursuant to such
terms and conditions  as may be established by the Oregon Department of Administrative Services.
Loans made under subsection (2)(b) or (c) of this section may be interest free, or bear  interest at a
rate established by the Oregon Department of Administrative Services.  Amounts repaid on loans
made under subsection (2)(b) or (c) of this section shall be deposited in the General Fund.
(4) The Oregon Department of  Emergency Management shall deposit into the account any
amounts repaid on loans made under subsection (2)(a) of this section.
(5) The department may not  charge the account more than five percent of the maximum amount
in the account during a biennium for administrative expenses  attributable to a loan made under
subsection (2)(a) of this section.
(6) An applicant may apply to the department for a loan under subsection (2)(a)  of this section.
The department shall consider the application, make a recommendation and submit the application
Enrolled House Bill 4156 (HB 4156-A) Page 2
and recommendation to the Local Disaster Assistance Review  Board established under subsection
(7) of this section.
(7) The department shall establish a Local Disaster Assistance Review Board to:
(a) Review the recommendations of the department regarding loans under subsection (2)(a)  of
this section;
(b) Approve, by a majority vote of members, the amount of any loan under subsection  (2)(a) of
this section; and
(c) Approve, by a majority vote of members,  the terms and conditions of any loan under sub-
section (2)(a) of this section.
(8) The review board shall include:
(a) Three members of county governing bodies, with at least one member  representing a county
from east  of the crest of the Cascade Mountains, with membership determined by the Association
of Oregon Counties;
(b) Three members of city  governing bodies, with at least one member representing a city from
east of the crest of  the Cascade Mountains, with membership determined by the League of Oregon
Cities;
(c) A representative of the office of the State Treasurer;
(d) A representative of the department;
(e) A representative of school districts, with membership determined by  the Oregon School
Boards Association;
(f) A representative of special districts, with membership determined by  the Special Districts
Association of Oregon;
(g) A representative of the Oregon Department of Administrative Services; and
(h) Two additional members determined jointly by the department, the Association of Oregon
Counties and the League of Oregon Cities.
(9) The Oregon Department of Emergency Management shall adopt rules establishing:
(a) A loan application process and application forms for loans under  subsection (2)(a) of this
section;
(b) Reasonable financial terms and conditions for loans under subsection (2)(a) of  this section,
including interest and the repayment of the loans;
(c) Eligibility requirements for applicants for loans under subsection (2)(a) of this section;
(d) The maximum amount an applicant for a loan under subsection (2)(a) of  this section may
receive;
(e) The methodology the department will use  for charging the account for administrative ex-
penses; and
(f) Procedures  for submission of recommendations to the review board for loans under subsection
(2)(a) of this section.
(10) The department shall provide staff support for the review board.
(11) As used in this section, “qualified recipient” means a local government,  as defined
in ORS 174.116, a school district or another entity that meets eligibility  criteria for post-
disaster grants offered by the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
SECTION 6.
 ORS 401.536, as operative until July 1, 2022, is amended to read:
401.536. (1) The  Oregon Local Disaster Assistance Loan and Grant Account is established as
an account in the Oregon Disaster Response Fund. The account  consists of moneys appropriated by
the Legislative Assembly and any other moneys deposited into the account pursuant to law.
(2) Moneys in  the account are continuously appropriated to the Oregon Military Department for:
(a) Providing loans to [ local governments, as defined in ORS 174.116, and school districts ] quali-
fied recipients to match, either in full or in part, moneys from federal  programs for federally de-
clared disaster relief that require a match;
(b) Providing loans and grants to [ local governments, as defined in  ORS 174.116, and school dis-
tricts] qualified recipients, for the purpose of paying costs incurred by [ local governments and school
districts] qualified recipients in response to federally declared disasters;
Enrolled House Bill 4156 (HB 4156-A) Page 3
(c) Providing loans and grants to [ local governments, as defined in ORS 174.116, and school dis-
tricts] qualified recipients  for the purposes of paying costs incurred by [ local governments and
school districts ] qualified recipients in response to disasters that are not federally declared disas-
ters, as determined by the Legislative  Assembly, if all loans and grants provided under paragraphs
(a) and (b) of this subsection have been repaid, fulfilled or otherwise satisfied and moneys  remain
in the account; and
(d) Subject to subsection (5) of this section, paying the department’s expenses  for administering
loans made from the account under paragraph (a) of this subsection.
(3) Loans made under subsection (2)(b) or  (c) of this section shall be repaid pursuant to such
terms and conditions as may be established by the Oregon Department of  Administrative Services.
Loans made under subsection  (2)(b) or (c) of this section may be interest free, or bear interest at a
rate established by the Oregon  Department of Administrative Services. Amounts repaid on loans
made under subsection (2)(b) or (c) of this section shall be deposited in the General Fund.
(4) The Oregon Military Department shall deposit into the account any amounts repaid on  loans
made under subsection (2)(a) of this section.
(5) The Oregon Military Department may not charge the account more than five percent of the
maximum amount in the account during a biennium for administrative expenses attributable to a
loan made under subsection (2)(a) of this section.
(6) An applicant may apply to  the Oregon Military Department for a loan under subsection (2)(a)
of this section. The department shall consider the application, make a recommendation and  submit
the application and recommendation to the Local Disaster Assistance Review Board  established
under subsection (7) of this section.
(7) The Oregon Military Department shall establish a Local Disaster Assistance Review Board
to:
(a) Review the recommendations of the department regarding loans under subsection (2)(a)  of
this section;
(b) Approve, by a majority vote of members, the amount of any loan under subsection  (2)(a) of
this section; and
(c) Approve, by a majority vote of members,  the terms and conditions of any loan under sub-
section (2)(a) of this section.
(8) The review board shall include:
(a) Three members of county governing bodies, with at least one member  representing a county
from east  of the crest of the Cascade Mountains, with membership determined by the Association
of Oregon Counties;
(b) Three members of city  governing bodies, with at least one member representing a city from
east of the crest of  the Cascade Mountains, with membership determined by the League of Oregon
Cities;
(c) A representative of the office of the State Treasurer;
(d) A representative of the Oregon Military Department;
(e) A representative of school districts, with membership determined by  the Oregon School
Boards Association;
(f) A representative of special districts, with membership determined by  the Special Districts
Association of Oregon;
(g) A representative of the Oregon Department of Administrative Services; and
(h) Two additional members determined jointly by the department, the Association of Oregon
Counties and the League of Oregon Cities.
(9) The Office of Emergency Management  of the Oregon Military Department shall adopt rules
establishing:
(a) A loan application process  and application forms for loans under subsection (2)(a) of this
section;
(b) Reasonable financial  terms and conditions for loans under subsection (2)(a) of this section,
including interest and the repayment of the loans;
Enrolled House Bill 4156 (HB 4156-A) Page 4
(c) Eligibility requirements for applicants for loans under subsection (2)(a) of this section;
(d) The maximum amount  an applicant for a loan under subsection (2)(a) of this section may
receive;
(e) The methodology the department will use for  charging the account for administrative ex-
penses; and
(f) Procedures  for submission of recommendations to the review board for loans under subsection
(2)(a) of this section.
(10) The Oregon Military Department shall provide staff support for the review board.
(11) As used  in this section, “qualified recipient” means a local government, as defined
in ORS 174.116, a  school district or another entity that meets eligibility criteria for post-
disaster grants offered by the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
EASTERN OREGON BORDER ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT BOARD
SECTION 7.
 ORS 284.793 is amended to read:
284.793. (1) On or before June 30  of each year, the third-party administrator shall submit the
following  information  from the previous 12 months to the Eastern Oregon Border Economic Devel-
opment Board:
(a) The number of businesses  or regionally significant industrial sites that were assisted with
grants awarded and loans made through programs under ORS 284.791;
(b) The types and amount of resources leveraged by the grant and loan moneys;
(c) The return on investment,  performance and outcome with respect to jobs and wages in any
area of the Eastern Oregon Border Economic Development Region in which grant and loan  moneys
were utilized; and
(d) Any  other information the third-party administrator considers useful in evaluating the expe-
rience of the grant and loan programs.
(2)(a) On or before September 15 of each  year, the Eastern Oregon Border Economic Develop-
ment Board , jointly with the Oregon Business Development  Department,  shall submit a report
to the  Legislative Assembly , in the manner required under ORS 192.245, [ to the Joint Committee
on Ways and Means or the Emergency Board, ] that sets forth the information received from the
third-party administrator under subsection (1)  of this section and any other information from any
source that the Eastern Oregon Border Economic Development Board thinks  convenient or neces-
sary for evaluating the administration and experience of the grant  and loan program established
under ORS 284.771 to 284.801.
(b) The Eastern Oregon Border Economic Development Board’s  report may include recommen-
dations for legislation and strategies to improve  workforce development and economic development
in the region.
UNIT CAPTIONS
SECTION 8.
The unit captions used in this 2022 Act are provided only for the convenience
of the  reader and do not become part of the statutory law of this state or express any leg-
islative intent in the enactment of this 2022 Act.
EMERGENCY CLAUSE
SECTION 9. This 2022 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency  is declared to exist, and this 2022 Act takes effect
on its passage.
Enrolled House Bill 4156 (HB 4156-A) Page 5
Passed by House March 4, 2022
..................................................................................
Timothy G. Sekerak, Chief Clerk of House
..................................................................................
Dan Rayfield, Speaker of House
Passed by Senate March 4, 2022
..................................................................................
Peter Courtney, President of Senate
Received by Governor:
........................M.,........................................................., 2022
Approved:
........................M.,........................................................., 2022
..................................................................................
Kate Brown, Governor
Filed in Office of Secretary of State:
........................M.,........................................................., 2022
..................................................................................
Shemia Fagan, Secretary of State
Enrolled House Bill 4156 (HB 4156-A) Page 6