1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 5
Sponsored by Senator ANDERSON
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act directs higher learning schools to  have a policy that requires certain teachers
to have obtained at least a master’s degree. The Act provides  for exceptions. (Flesch Readability
Score: 64.6).
Requires the governing board of each public university  in this state to adopt a personnel policy
that includes institutional standards  for faculty qualifications. Requires that the standards include
that faculty must have obtained at least a master’s degree. Provides for exceptions to the policy.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to faculty qualifications for public universities.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The governing board of each public university listed in ORS 352.002 shall
establish a personnel policy that includes institutional standards for instructor qualifications.
The policy established under this subsection must  require that faculty of lower division
collegiate courses  have obtained at least a master’s degree in a subject area closely related
to any course the faculty will be teaching.
(2) The policy established under subsection (1) of this section may provide  for an excep-
tion to the master’s degree requirement for:
(a) Faculty who have a demonstrated competency in a professional  field closely related
to any course the faculty will be teaching.
(b) Graduate students who are enrolled at the public university and are employed by the
public university to teach.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 3908