1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
81st OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2021 Regular Session
House Bill 2049
Introduced and printed pursuant to House Rule 12.00. Presession filed (at the request of  Governor Kate Brown for
Oregon Criminal Justice Commission)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Establishes Innovative Grant Fund. Directs  Oregon Criminal Justice Commission to establish
and administer Innovative Grant Program  to award grants to programs that enhance public safety
and meet other requirements.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to the Innovative Grant Program.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
The Innovative Grant Fund is established in the State Treasury, separate
and distinct from the General  Fund. All moneys in the fund are continuously appropriated
to the Oregon Criminal Justice Commission for the purposes of making grants as part of the
Innovative Grant Program described in section 2 of this 2021 Act. The fund  shall consist of
moneys appropriated to the commission by  the Legislative Assembly for purposes of the
grants.
SECTION 2.
(1) The Oregon Criminal Justice Commission shall establish and administer
the Innovative Grant Program as described in this section.
(2) Using funds in the Innovative Grant Fund described in section 1 of this 2021 Act, the
commission shall award grants to programs that:
(a) Demonstrate strong potential to have positive impacts on public safety;
(b) Can produce measurable outcomes;
(c) Have the potential to  benefit the entire state, either through immediate impact or
through potential reproducibility after an initial pilot period; and
(d) Demonstrate coordination with local public safety coordinating councils.
(3) The commission  shall adopt rules to carry out the provisions of this section. The rules
must include, but are not limited to:
(a) A methodology for reviewing and approving  grant applications and distributing grant
funds; and
(b) A process for evaluating the efficacy of programs receiving grants under this section.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 438