1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 3789
Sponsored by Representatives PHAM H, SOSA,  NERON, ANDERSEN; Representatives CHOTZEN, FRAGALA,
GOMBERG, HUDSON,  MUNOZ, WALTERS, Senators BROADMAN, FREDERICK, LIEBER, PATTERSON,
PHAM K, PROZANSKI, REYNOLDS
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act makes  it unlawful for a person to falsely impersonate a union representative.
The Act  says that a union can keep a list of union representatives. The Act sets fines for breaking
the law. The Act allows a union to  file a lawsuit against a person who breaks the law. (Flesch
Readability Score: 62.8).
Makes it unlawful to falsely impersonate a union representative.
Provides  a  cause of action for a union representative alleging a violation of the prohibition
against falsely impersonating a union representative.
Authorizes civil penalties for violations.
Permits labor organizations to maintain a list of verifiable union representatives.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to union misrepresentation.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
Section 2 of this 2025 Act is added to and made a  part of ORS 243.650 to
243.809.
SECTION 2. (1) As used in this section:
(a) “Designated representative” has the meaning given that term in ORS 243.796.
(b) “Falsely impersonate a union representative” means to use fraud  or misrepresen-
tation to obtain,  possess, transfer, create, utter or convert to a person’s own use the identity
of a union representative or otherwise hold oneself out to be a union representative.
(c) “Fraud or misrepresentation” has the meaning given that term in ORS 677.188.
(d) “Union representative” means:
(A) An exclusive representative.
(B) A designated representative.
(C) An employee or staff member of a labor organization.
(2) It is unlawful for any person to falsely impersonate a union representative.
(3) To protect public employees who are members of a labor organization from fraud or
misrepresentation, including the false impersonation of a union representative,  a labor or-
ganization that is the exclusive  representative may maintain and make accessible to public
employees and exclusive representatives  a list identifying union representatives associated
with the labor organization. The list may include names of  union representatives and any
other relevant information sufficient to verify whether a person  is actually a union repre-
sentative.
(4) A person that violates  this section is subject to a civil penalty in an amount not to
exceed $
 for each separate instance  of a violation of this section. Civil penalties under
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 4270
HB 3789
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
this subsection shall be:
(a) Imposed by the Employment Relations Board as provided in ORS 183.745.
(b) Deposited in the Employment Relations Board Administrative Account.
(5)(a) A union representative alleging a violation of this section may  bring a civil action
in a court of appropriate jurisdiction to obtain damages.
(b) In addition to and not in lieu of any  other damages that may be claimed, a plaintiff
shall receive liquidated damages in an amount  of $6,250 per incident in any action in which
the plaintiff establishes that the defendant falsely impersonated a union representative.
[2]