1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2702
Sponsored by Representative EVANS (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act creates a fund for ODEM to  give funds to local governments when needed to
get federal aid or for disaster grants. (Flesch Readability Score: 65.7).
Establishes the Oregon  Disaster Response Assistance Matching Fund. Provides that moneys in
the fund may be used by the Oregon Department of Emergency Management to issue grants to  local
governments to make matching contributions necessary to access federal  aid or to assist or support
disaster response efforts.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to disaster response.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Oregon Disaster Response Assistance Matching Fund is  established
in the  State Treasury, separate and distinct from the General Fund. The Oregon Disaster
Response Assistance Matching Fund consists of  moneys appropriated, allocated, deposited
or transferred to the fund by the Legislative Assembly  or otherwise. Moneys in the fund are
continuously appropriated to the Oregon Department of Emergency Management  for the
purposes specified in subsections (2) and (3) of this section.
(2) When the receipt of federal grants or other federal aid related to disaster  response
is conditioned on the contribution of matching funds by the recipient,  the department may
provide grants from the fund to local governments  to be used to contribute such matching
funds.
(3) The department may provide grants from the  fund to local governments in order to
assist or support disaster response efforts.
(4) The department may adopt rules necessary for the administration of this section.
(5) As used in this section, “local government” has the meaning given that  term in ORS
174.116.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 3162