1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2649
Sponsored by Representative EVANS (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act lets certain  higher learning schools increase their costs without HECC ap-
proval. (Flesch Readability Score: 65.7).
Permits certain public universities in  this state to increase tuition and fees without the approval
of the Higher Education Coordinating Commission.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to tuition and fees for public universities; amending ORS 352.102.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 352.102 is amended to read:
352.102. (1) Except as set forth in this section, the governing board may authorize, establish,
eliminate, collect, manage, use in any manner and expend all revenue derived from tuition and
mandatory enrollment fees.
(2) The governing  board shall establish a process for determining tuition and mandatory enroll-
ment fees. The process must:
(a) Include the use of an advisory body in the manner set forth in ORS 352.103; and
(b) Ensure that the governing board receives and considers all written reports and minority  re-
ports, including all recommendations, deliberations and observations  of the advisory body that are
provided to the president of the university under ORS 352.103.
(3) The governing board shall request that the president of the  university transmit to the board
the joint recommendation of the president and the recognized  student government before the board
authorizes, establishes or eliminates any  incidental fees for programs under the supervision or con-
trol of the board and found by the board to be advantageous  to the cultural or physical development
of students.
(4) Except as provided in subsection (6) of this section,  in determining tuition and mandatory
enrollment fees for undergraduate students who are enrolled in a degree program  and are qualified
to pay resident tuition:
(a) The governing board may not increase the total of  tuition and mandatory enrollment fees
by more than five percent annually unless the board first receives approval from:
(A) The Higher Education Coordinating Commission; or
(B) The Legislative Assembly.
(b) The governing board shall  attempt to limit annual increases in tuition and mandatory en-
rollment fees for undergraduate students who are enrolled in  a degree program and have established
residency in Oregon to a percentage that is not greater than  the percentage increase in the Higher
Education Price Index, as compiled by the Commonfund Institute.
(5) Except as provided in subsection (6) of this section,  if the governing board  of a public
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 3493
HB 2649
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
university requests that the commission approve an  increase in the total amount of tuition and
mandatory enrollment fees of more  than five percent under subsection (4)(a) of this section, the
public university shall provide to the commission:
(a) All written reports and minority  reports, including all recommendations, deliberations and
observations of the  advisory body that are provided to the president of the university under ORS
352.103; and
(b) Any other information or materials the commission  determines are necessary in order for the
commission to determine whether to approve the proposed increase in the total amount of tuition
and mandatory enrollment fees.
(6) Subsections (4) and  (5) of this section do not apply to Eastern Oregon University,
Southern Oregon University, Western Oregon University or Oregon Institute of Technology.
[(6)] (7) The governing  board may not delegate authority to determine tuition and mandatory
enrollment fees for undergraduate  students who are enrolled in a degree program and are qualified
to pay resident tuition.
[2]