1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 505
Sponsored by Senator SMITH DB (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act tells ODEM to give grants to counties to pay for emergency  coordinators. The
Act tells the EPAC  to make a group to study the emergency readiness of counties. (Flesch Read-
ability Score: 61.8).
Directs the Oregon Department of Emergency Management to develop and implement  a grant
program to distribute moneys to certain counties to fund emergency preparedness coordinators.
Directs the Emergency Preparedness Advisory Council to  convene a Committee on County
Emergency Management to study and make recommendations  regarding the capacity of counties in
Oregon to prepare for, respond to and recover from emergencies.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to county emergency management.
Whereas it is critical for communities to prepare for  disasters and other emergencies, including
a Cascadia Subduction Zone earthquake and tsunami; and
Whereas statewide emergency preparedness is dependent on local preparedness; now, therefore,
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Oregon Department of Emergency Management shall, by rule,  de-
velop and  implement a grant program to distribute moneys to eligible counties to fund
emergency preparedness coordinators at the county level.
(2) A county is eligible for a grant under the program if:
(a) The county is one of Clatsop, Coos, Curry, Douglas, Lane, Lincoln or Tillamook
Counties; and
(b) The emergency management agency of the county  is funded by federal moneys dis-
tributed through  the Emergency Management Performance Grant administered by the Fed-
eral Emergency Management Agency.
(3) The department shall prescribe the process for eligible counties to apply  for a grant
under this section, including  application timelines and the form and contents of an applica-
tion.
(4) The department shall award grants to selected applicants in an amount sufficient  to
fund a county emergency preparedness coordinator for one biennium. In selecting  counties
to be awarded grants under  this section, the department shall seek to maximize the overall
emergency preparedness of  this state, with consideration given to geographic differences in
types and severity of potential emergencies.
SECTION 2.
In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there is appropri-
ated to the Oregon Department of  Emergency Management, for the biennium beginning July
1, 2025, out of the General Fund, the amount of $_____ to carry out the purposes  of section
1 of this 2025 Act.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2260
SB 505
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
SECTION 3.
(1) The Emergency Preparedness Advisory Council established under section
151, chapter 539, Oregon Laws 2021,  shall convene a Committee on County Emergency Man-
agement.
(2) The committee must consist of not more than half of the members of the council.
The council shall appoint a chairperson and vice chairperson for the committee.
(3) The committee shall study and make recommendations regarding  the capacity of
counties in Oregon to prepare for, respond to and  recover from emergencies. The recom-
mendations must include recommendations  for methods to establish dedicated funding for
county emergency management staff, including  at least a director and deputy director of
emergency management in each county.
(4) On or before December 31, 2026, the committee shall transmit a report describing  its
findings and recommendations to the standing or interim committees of the  Legislative As-
sembly relating to emergency management.
(5) The Legislative Revenue  Officer is directed to assist the Committee on County
Emergency Management in carrying out revenue projections and any other tasks  the com-
mittee deems necessary for the performance of its duties.
SECTION 4. Section 3 of this 2025 Act is repealed on January 2, 2027.
[2]