1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Joint Resolution 13
Sponsored by Senator SMITH DB (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Resolution proposes a constitutional  change. The change would declare a right to
fish, hunt or gather wild foods. The Resolution  refers the change to voters. (Flesch Readability
Score: 61.3).
Proposes an amendment to  the Oregon Constitution to declare a constitutional right to fish,
hunt or harvest wildlife or gather wild foods, subject to certain legal restrictions.
Refers the proposed amendment to the people for their approval or rejection at the next regular
general election.
JOINT RESOLUTION
Whereas Oregon residents have a  strong interest in sourcing their own foods, both wild and
foraged; and
Whereas the self-reliant sourcing of wild foods has been, and continues to be, a part  of Oregon’s
heritage; and
Whereas the right to  fish, hunt or harvest wildlife and gather wild foods will not supersede
wildlife conservation  and management laws and regulations, nor public and private property rights;
now, therefore,
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
PARAGRAPH 1.
 The Constitution of the State of Oregon is amended by creating a new  section
48 to be added to and made a part of Article I, such section to read:
SECTION 48. Residents of this state have the right to fish, hunt or harvest wildlife and
gather wild foods by traditional methods  or manners, subject only to laws enacted by the
Legislative Assembly and rules adopted by state agencies  to promote sound wildlife conser-
vation and management. The right to fish, hunt or harvest wildlife and gather wild  foods is
a valued part of Oregon’s heritage and shall be forever preserved. This section does not
abrogate any public or private property rights or the sovereignty of this state over its na-
tural resources.
PARAGRAPH 2.
The amendment proposed by this resolution shall be submitted to the
people for their approval or rejection at the next  regular general election held throughout
this state.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1325