1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 3814
Sponsored by Representative GOMBERG, Senator SMITH DB, Representative DOBSON;  Senators ANDERSON,
MEEK, WEBER
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: This Act  stops the EQC and DEQ from making seafood processors meet standards for
bacteria in waste water from fecal sources. (Flesch Readability Score: 60.6).
Prohibits the Environmental Quality Commission and Department of Environmental Quality from
requiring seafood processors to meet water quality or purity standards for bacteria in effluent  dis-
charges associated with fecal sources.
Takes effect on the 91st day following adjournment sine die.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to seafood processors; and prescribing an effective date.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
Section 2 of this 2025 Act is added to and made a  part of ORS chapter 468B.
SECTION 2. Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, and except  as required
by federal law, the Environmental Quality Commission and the Department of Environmental
Quality may not require, in any permit for the discharge  of wastes into the waters of the
state, that a seafood processor meet the criteria of any water quality or purity  standard for
bacteria in effluent discharges associated with fecal sources.
SECTION 3.
This 2025 Act takes effect on the 91st day after the date on which the 2025
regular session of the Eighty-third Legislative Assembly adjourns sine die.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 4181