1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2023 Regular Session
House Bill 3421
Sponsored by Representative EVANS
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Requires official ceremony or other event  held by state government to commemorate Memorial
Day or Veterans Day to be held on legal holiday. Provides exception.  Requires Department of
Veterans’ Affairs to ensure that members of public have  access to attend or participate in official
ceremony or other event.
Requires Director of Veterans’ Affairs to  ensure that state-owned or state-maintained veterans’
facilities,  memorials  for honoring veterans and war memorials, except highways, are in clean con-
dition and good repair for Memorial Day, Veterans Day and any ceremony or other  event that may
be held to commemorate Memorial Day or Veterans Day.
Requires department to report to appropriate  committee or interim committee of Legislative
Assembly no later than September 15 of each year on conditions of state-owned or  state-maintained
veterans’ facilities, memorials for honoring veterans and war memorials.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to the commemoration of military service members.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) Any official ceremony or other event held  by state government, as de-
fined in ORS 174.111, to commemorate Memorial Day or Veterans  Day, must be held on the
respective day of the legal holiday as specified in ORS 187.010.
(2) The Department of Veterans’ Affairs  shall ensure that members of the public have
access to attend or  participate in any official ceremony or other event held under this sec-
tion.
(3) Notwithstanding subsection (1) of this  section, the Governor may, with the concur-
rence of a two-thirds majority of both houses of the Legislative  Assembly, direct that an
official ceremony or other event held under this section be held  on a day different from the
legal holiday, if exigent circumstances exist that prevent the official ceremony or other event
from being held on the day of the legal holiday.
SECTION 2. (1) The  Director of Veterans’ Affairs shall ensure that all state-owned or
state-maintained veterans’ facilities, memorials for honoring veterans  and war memorials,
except highways, are in clean condition and good repair for Memorial Day, Veterans Day  and
any ceremony or other event that may be held  to commemorate Memorial Day or Veterans
Day.
(2) All state  agencies shall cooperate with and assist the director in the performance of
the director’s duties under subsection (1) of this section.
(3) The Department of Veterans’  Affairs shall report to an appropriate committee or in-
terim committee  of the Legislative Assembly no later than September 15 of each year on the
conditions of state-owned or  state-maintained veterans’ facilities, memorials for honoring
veterans and war memorials.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 3706