1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 3307
Sponsored by Representative EVANS
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act tells  ODEM to run a grant program to support and expand certain volunteer
programs in this state. (Flesch Readability Score: 67.3).
Directs the Oregon  Department of Emergency Management to develop and implement a grant
program, in consultation with the OregonServes Commission,  to support and expand community
volunteer programs related to emergency management in Oregon.
Declares an emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to emergency volunteers; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Oregon Department of  Emergency Management, in consultation with
the OregonServes Commission, shall develop and implement a grant program  to support and
expand community volunteer programs related to emergency management  in Oregon. The
department shall make grant awards from the Volunteer  Capacity Building Fund established
under section 2 of this 2025 Act.
(2) Public and private entities that train and utilize volunteers for purposes related to
emergency preparedness, response and recovery  are eligible for grants under this section.
Eligible entities may apply  for grants by submitting an application to the department in a
form and manner specified by the department by rule.
(3) Grant moneys awarded under this section must  be used for purposes related to re-
cruiting, training, managing or deploying volunteers for purposes  related to emergency
preparedness, response  or recovery, including program staffing or operations. The depart-
ment shall execute grant agreements  with grant recipients, obligating recipients to use grant
moneys for  permissible purposes specified by the department. The department shall deter-
mine the permissible purposes for a grant under this section based on the needs of the  grant
recipient and the locality in which the grant recipient operates.
(4) In awarding grants under this section, the department shall consult  with the
OregonServes Commission and shall prioritize grants that will maximize:
(a) The overall emergency preparedness of all regions of this state; and
(b) Access to federal or other nonstate moneys for emergency management purposes.
(5) The department shall adopt rules necessary for the administration of this section.
SECTION 2.
The Volunteer Capacity  Building Fund is established in the State Treasury,
separate and distinct from the General Fund. The Volunteer Capacity Building Fund  consists
of moneys appropriated, allocated, deposited or transferred to the fund by  the Legislative
Assembly or  otherwise. Moneys in the fund are continuously appropriated to the Oregon
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2522
HB 3307
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
Department of Emergency Management to make grant awards under section 1 of this 2025
Act.
SECTION 3.
In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there  is appropri-
ated to the Oregon Department of  Emergency Management, for the biennium beginning July
1, 2025, out of the General Fund, the amount of $_____ for deposit in the Volunteer  Capacity
Building Fund established under section 2 of this 2025 Act.
SECTION 4. In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there is appropri-
ated to the Oregon Department of  Emergency Management, for the biennium beginning July
1, 2025, out of the General Fund, the amount of $_____ to  carry out the provisions of section
1 of this 2025 Act, including program development, outreach, administration and reporting.
SECTION 5. In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there  is appropri-
ated to the  Higher Education Coordinating Commission, for the biennium beginning July 1,
2025, out of  the General Fund, the amount of $_____ for the OregonServes Commission to
carry out the provisions of  section 1 of this 2025 Act, including program development, out-
reach, administration and reporting.
SECTION 6. This 2025 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist,  and this 2025 Act takes effect
on its passage.
[2]