1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2024 Regular Session
Senate Bill 1578
Sponsored by  Senator MANNING JR, Representatives NELSON, DEXTER, Senator GORSEK; Senators CAMPOS,
DEMBROW, FREDERICK, JAMA, Representatives BYNUM, CHAICHI, GAMBA, GRAYBER,  HARTMAN,
LIVELY, MARSH, NOSSE,  PHAM H, REYNOLDS, RUIZ, SOSA (at the request of Lamar Wise, AFSCME)
(Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act directs the OHA to  set up a health care interpreter management system. The
Act requires the OHA to contract with a nonprofit entity to manage the system. The Act sets  out
certain requirements for the nonprofit. The Act requires  the nonprofit to submit a report to the
OHA each year. (Flesch Readability Score: 60.2).
Directs the Oregon Health Authority to establish and maintain  an online portal with the
functionality to provide online scheduling for health care providers and coordinated  care organiza-
tions to use to contact  health care interpreters directly and to process billing. Requires the au-
thority to contract with a  nonprofit entity to administer the portal. Provides criteria and reporting
requirements that the contracting nonprofit must meet.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to health care interpreters.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
Sections 2 and 3 of this 2024 Act are added to and made a part of ORS 413.550
to 413.559.
SECTION 2. (1) As used in this section and section 3 of this 2024 Act:
(a) “Interpreter management system” means an online portal that meets the require-
ments under subsection (3) of this section.
(b) “Nonprofit entity” means an organization that:
(A) Is registered in this state;
(B) Is exempt from taxation under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code; and
(C) Works with certified  and qualified health care interpreters and individuals from im-
migrant, refugee, low-income and rural communities.
(2)(a) For purposes  of improving access to certified and qualified health care interpreters,
the Oregon Health Authority shall establish and maintain an interpreter management system
that has the functionality to meet the  requirements described under subsection (3) of this
section.
(b) If a software program is available for purchase that is appropriate for the interpreter
management system, the authority may contract with the vendor of the software program
in lieu of creating a new software program.
(3) The interpreter management system shall have the capability to:
(a) Provide online scheduling resources that health care providers,  including coordinated
care organizations, may use to directly  schedule appointments with certified and qualified
health care interpreters; and
(b) Process billing and payments for  health care interpreter services scheduled through
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 253
SB 1578
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
the portal.
SECTION 3.
(1) The Oregon Health  Authority shall contract with a nonprofit entity for
the administration and  management of the interpreter management system described under
section 2 of this 2024 Act. The nonprofit entity  contracting with the authority must meet,
at a minimum, the following requirements and standards:
(a) Providing low-cost training and continuing  education opportunities for certified and
qualified health care interpreters.
(b) The ability to directly contact qualified and certified health  care interpreters to fill
empty appointment slots and last-minute cancellations.
(c) Having a plan for recruiting and retaining certified and qualified health care  inter-
preters.
(d) Maintaining a commitment to involving certified and qualified  health care interpret-
ers and labor organizations that  represent health care interpreters in developing strategies
to improve education and training, recruitment and support for the  health care interpreter
workforce.
(e) Providing information to health care interpreters regarding the  health care inter-
preter qualification and certification standards established by the Oregon Health Authority.
(f) Informing health care interpreters  of training and professional development opportu-
nities, made available through the nonprofit entity or otherwise, that are in accordance with
standards adopted by the Oregon Health Authority under ORS 413.558.
(2) A nonprofit entity that contracts with  the Oregon Health Authority under subsection
(1) of this section shall report annually to the authority on the:
(a) Amount of moneys received from the authority that were applied toward providing
training and recruitment of health care interpreters, if any;
(b) Health care interpreter training provided by the nonprofit entity;
(c) Outreach and recruitment efforts directed toward certified and  qualified health care
interpreters that the nonprofit entity has provided or plans to provide; and
(d) Status of the health care interpreter management  system administered by the
nonprofit entity.
SECTION 4.
The Oregon Health Authority shall take  all steps necessary to secure federal
financial participation in the costs of directly  reimbursing health care interpreters for health
care interpretation services provided to medical assistance  recipients, including but not
limited to  seeking approval from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services for a dem-
onstration project under 42 U.S.C. 1315.
[2]