1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Resolution 3
Sponsored by Senator WAGNER
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Honors the groundbreaking work of eye  care surgeon Dr. Mark Terry. (Flesch Read-
ability Score: 64.9).
Commends Dr. Mark Terry for his unrivaled contributions to ophthalmology and medical re-
search.
SENATE RESOLUTION
Whereas pioneering ophthalmic surgeon  Dr. Mark Terry has been the Director of Corneal Ser-
vices at the Devers Eye Institute in Portland, Oregon, since 1990, and his leadership at  Devers and
at the Oregon Lions VisionGift Research Laboratory has improved patient outcomes and advanced
medical research for three and a half decades; and
Whereas Dr. Terry is also a Professor of Clinical Ophthalmology at  Oregon Health and Science
University, and he has lectured extensively  internationally and widely published his research work
in the areas of corneal transplantation, corneal physiology,  refractive surgery, dry eye and
endophthalmitis; and
Whereas in 2000, Dr. Terry began the first U.S. clinical series of endothelial keratoplasty (EK),
and along with the international Endothelial Keratoplasty Group, which he founded in 2002, he  has
continued to pioneer the further development of  EK, with over 100 publications on deep lamellar
endothelial keratoplasty (DLEK), descemet stripping endothelial keratoplasty  (DSEK), descemet
stripping automated endothelial keratoplasty (DSAEK) and descemet membrane endothelial
keratoplasty (DMEK); and
Whereas Dr. Terry’s groundbreaking surgical  techniques and tools have transformed corneal
transplantation, giving hope to patients who had resigned themselves to lifelong sightlessness; and
Whereas Dr. Terry’s  work with infant patient Paxton Call, who was previously believed to be
destined to  a life of isolation, completely transformed the young boy’s life, as well as the lives of
those who loved and cared for him; and
Whereas Dr. Terry’s dedication to training ophthalmic surgeons worldwide has  drastically im-
proved eye care  in communities around the globe and ensured the methods he has developed will
continue to enhance quality of life for vision-challenged patients for generations to come; and
Whereas driven by his pediatrician father before him, who showed  him the meaning of
compassionate care, as well as by his  dedication to his special needs son, Nicholas, Dr. Terry has
built empathy  into the core of every single one of his patient relationships, setting an example for
all medical professionals working with patients with disabilities; now, therefore,
Be It Resolved by the Senate of the State of Oregon:
That we, the members of the Senate of  the Eighty-third Legislative Assembly, commend Dr.
Mark Terry for his unrivaled contributions to  ophthalmology and medical research; and be it further
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 4795
SR 3
1
2
3
Resolved, That we recognize and celebrate his pioneering advancements in corneal transplanta-
tion and his lasting impact on vision restoration and public health in  Oregon and around the globe.
[2]