83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Enrolled
Senate Bill 826
Printed pursuant to Senate Interim  Rule 213.28 by order of the President of the Senate in conform-
ance with presession filing rules, indicating neither advocacy nor  opposition on the part of the
President (at the request of Governor Tina Kotek for Oregon Department of  Emergency Man-
agement)
CHAPTER .................................................
AN ACT
Relating to the Oregon Statewide Communication Interoperability Plan;  creating new provisions;
amending ORS 403.450, 403.455, 403.460 and 403.465; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
TRANSFER OF FUNCTIONS RELATED TO THE OREGON
STATEWIDE COMMUNICATION INTEROPERABILITY PLAN
SECTION 1.  The duties, functions and powers  of the State Chief Information Officer re-
lating to the Oregon Statewide Communication Interoperability Plan are imposed upon,
transferred to and vested in the Oregon Department of Emergency Management.
SECTION 2.
(1) The State Chief Information Officer shall:
(a) Deliver to the Oregon Department of Emergency  Management all records and prop-
erty within the jurisdiction of the State Chief Information Officer that relate to the duties,
functions and powers transferred by section 1 of this 2025 Act; and
(b) Transfer to the department those employees engaged primarily in the exercise  of the
duties, functions and powers transferred by section 1 of this 2025 Act.
(2) The Director of the Oregon Department of  Emergency Management shall take pos-
session of the records and property, and  shall take charge of the employees and employ them
in the exercise of the duties, functions and powers transferred by section 1 of this 2025  Act,
without reduction of compensation but subject to change or termination of employment or
compensation as provided by law.
(3) The Governor shall resolve any dispute between  the State Chief Information Officer
and the department relating to transfers of records, property and employees under  this
section, and the Governor’s decision is final.
SECTION 3. (1) The unexpended balances of amounts authorized to be expended by  or for
the State Chief Information Officer for the biennium  beginning July 1, 2025, from revenues
dedicated, continuously appropriated, appropriated or otherwise made available  for the pur-
pose of administering and enforcing the duties,  functions and powers transferred by section
1 of this 2025 Act are transferred to and are available for expenditure  by the Oregon De-
partment of Emergency Management for the biennium beginning July 1, 2025, for the purpose
Enrolled Senate Bill 826 (SB 826-A) Page 1
of administering and enforcing  the duties, functions and powers transferred by section 1 of
this 2025 Act.
(2) The expenditure classifications, if any, established by Acts authorizing or  limiting
expenditures by or for the State Chief  Information Officer remain applicable to expenditures
by the department under this section.
SECTION 4. The transfer of duties, functions  and powers to the Oregon Department of
Emergency Management  by section 1 of this 2025 Act does not affect any action, proceeding
or prosecution involving or with respect to the duties, functions and powers begun  before
and pending at the  time of the transfer, except that the department is substituted for the
State Chief Information Officer, the office of Enterprise  Information Services or the Oregon
Department of Administrative Services, as appropriate, in  the action, proceeding or prose-
cution.
SECTION 5. (1) Nothing in sections 1 to 7 of this 2025 Act and the amendments  to ORS
403.450, 403.455, 403.460 and 403.465 by sections 8 to 11 of this 2025 Act relieves a person of
a liability,  duty or obligation accruing under or with respect to the duties, functions and
powers transferred by section 1 of this 2025 Act. The Oregon Department  of Emergency
Management may undertake the collection or enforcement of any such  liability, duty or ob-
ligation.
(2) The  rights and obligations of the State Chief Information Officer, the office of En-
terprise Information Services or the Oregon Department of Administrative  Services legally
incurred under contracts, leases and business transactions executed,  entered into or begun
before the operative date of section 1 of this 2025 Act accruing under or with respect to the
duties, functions and powers transferred by section 1 of this 2025 Act are transferred  to the
Oregon Department of Emergency Management. For  the purpose of succession to these
rights and obligations, the department is a  continuation of the State Chief Information Of-
ficer, the office  of Enterprise Information Services or the Oregon Department of Adminis-
trative Services, as appropriate, and not a new authority.
SECTION 6.
Notwithstanding the transfer of duties, functions and powers by section 1
of this 2025 Act, the rules of the State Chief Information Officer with respect to such  duties,
functions or powers that are in effect on the operative date  of section 1 of this 2025 Act
continue in effect until superseded or repealed by rules of the Oregon Department  of Emer-
gency Management. References in the rules of the State Chief  Information Officer to the
State Chief Information Officer or  an employee of the State Chief Information Officer are
considered to be references to the department or an employee of the department.
SECTION 7. Whenever, in any uncodified law or resolution of the Legislative  Assembly
or in any rule, document, record  or proceeding authorized by the Legislative Assembly, in
the context of the duties, functions and powers  transferred by section 1 of this 2025 Act,
reference is made to the State Chief Information  Officer, or an employee of the State Chief
Information Officer, whose duties, functions or powers are transferred by section 1  of this
2025 Act, the reference  is considered to be a reference to the Oregon Department of Emer-
gency Management or an employee of the department who by this 2025 Act is charged  with
carrying out the duties, functions and powers.
CONFORMING AMENDMENTS
SECTION 8.  ORS 403.450 is amended to read:
403.450. (1) The State Interoperability Executive Council is  created under the [ State Chief In-
formation Officer ] Oregon  Department of Emergency Management  to be the statewide interop-
erability governing body serving as the primary steering group for the Oregon Statewide
Communication Interoperability Plan. The membership of the council consists of:
(a) Two members from the Legislative Assembly, as follows:
Enrolled Senate Bill 826 (SB 826-A) Page 2
(A) The President of the Senate shall appoint one member from the Senate with an interest in
public safety communications infrastructure; and
(B) The Speaker of the House  of Representatives shall appoint one member from the House of
Representatives with an interest in public safety and emergency communications infrastructure.
(b) The following members appointed by the Governor:
(A) One member from the Department of State Police;
(B) One member from the Oregon Department of Emergency Management;
(C) One member from the State Forestry Department;
(D) One member from the Department of Corrections;
(E) One member from the Department of Transportation;
(F) One member from the office of Enterprise Information Services;
(G) One member from the Oregon Health Authority;
(H) One member from the Oregon Military Department;
(I) One member from the Department of Public Safety Standards and Training;
(J) One member from the Oregon Broadband Advisory Council;
(K) One member from the Department of the State Fire Marshal;
(L) One member of an  Indian tribe as defined in ORS 97.740 or a designee of an Indian tribe;
and
(M) One member of the public.
(c) The following  members appointed by the Governor with the concurrence of the President of
the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives:
(A) One member from the Oregon Fire Chiefs Association;
(B) One member from the Oregon Association Chiefs of Police;
(C) One member from the Oregon State Sheriffs’ Association;
(D) One member from the Association of Oregon Counties;
(E) One member from the League of Oregon Cities;
(F) One member from the Special Districts Association of Oregon;
(G) One member who is an information technology officer of an Oregon city;
(H) One member who is an information technology officer of an Oregon county;
(I) One member who represents a nonprofit professional organization interested in the en-
hancement of public safety communications systems;
(J) One member  of the public who works or resides in Federal Communications Commission
Region 35; and
(K) One member from the Oregon emergency management community.
(2) Each agency or organization identified in subsection (1)(b)(A) to (J) and  (1)(c)(A) to (H) of
this section shall recommend an individual from the agency or  organization for membership on the
council.
(3) Members of the council are not entitled to compensation,  but in the discretion of the [ State
Chief Information Officer ] Oregon Department of Emergency  Management  may be reimbursed
from funds available to the [ office of Enterprise  Information Services ] department  for actual and
necessary travel and other expenses the members incur in performing  the members’ official duties
in the manner and amount provided in ORS 292.495.
(4) Members of the Legislative Assembly  appointed to the council are nonvoting members and
may act in an advisory capacity only.
SECTION 9.
 ORS 403.455 is amended to read:
403.455. The State Interoperability Executive Council created under ORS 403.450 shall:
(1) Develop, annually update and monitor implementation of the  Oregon Statewide Communi-
cation Interoperability Plan, the goal of which is to achieve statewide  interoperability of public
safety communications systems. To  the maximum extent possible, the Oregon Statewide Communi-
cation Interoperability Plan shall align with and support  the Enterprise Information Resources
Management Strategy described in ORS  276A.203. As part of the executive council’s duties under
this subsection, the executive council shall:
Enrolled Senate Bill 826 (SB 826-A) Page 3
(a) Recommend strategies to improve public safety  communications interoperability among state,
local, tribal and federal public safety agencies;
(b) Develop standards to promote consistent design and development of public safety communi-
cations infrastructures and recommend changes in existing public safety infrastructures that are
necessary or appropriate for implementation of the interoperability plan;
(c) Identify immediate short-term technological and policy solutions to tie existing public  safety
communications infrastructures together into an interoperable communications system;
(d) Develop long-term technological and policy recommendations to establish a statewide public
safety communications system to improve  emergency response and day-to-day public safety oper-
ations; and
(e) Develop recommendations for legislation and for the development of state  and local policies
that promote public safety communications interoperability in this state.
(2) Recommend to the Governor, for inclusion in the Governor’s budget, investments by the State
of Oregon in public safety communications systems.
(3) Coordinate state, local and, as  appropriate, tribal and federal activities related to obtaining
federal grants for support of interoperability and request technical assistance related  to interoper-
ability.
(4) Conduct and submit  an annual update of the interoperability plan to the United States De-
partment of Homeland Security, Office of Emergency Communications,  aligning the update with
standards established in the National Emergency Communications Plan and by the federal office.
(5) Coordinate statewide  interoperability activities among state, local and, as appropriate, tribal
and federal agencies.
(6) Advise the  [ State Chief Information Officer ] Oregon Department of Emergency Manage-
ment, the Governor and the Legislative Assembly on implementation of the interoperability plan.
(7) Serve as the Governor’s Public Safety Broadband Advisory Group.
(8) Report to the [ Joint Committee on  Ways and Means or to the Joint Interim Committee on Ways
and Means, and to the Joint Legislative Committee on Information Management and Technology ]
standing or interim committees related to  ways and means, and to the standing or interim
committees related to emergency management , on  or before February 1 of each odd-numbered
year, on the development of the interoperability plan and the executive council’s other activities.
(9) Adopt rules necessary to carry out the executive council’s duties and powers.
SECTION 10.
 ORS 403.460 is amended to read:
403.460. (1) The [ State Chief Information Officer ] Director of the Oregon Department of
Emergency Management  shall establish  and fill a full-time equivalent position for a statewide
interoperability  coordinator  to serve as the central coordination point for the Oregon Statewide
Communication Interoperability Plan and, through coordination and collaboration with agencies  and
entities in the emergency response community, to implement the interoperability plan.
(2) The statewide interoperability coordinator:
(a) Is the  primary staff support provided by the [ State Chief Information Officer ] Oregon De-
partment of Emergency Management  for the State Interoperability Executive Council  created
under ORS 403.450;
(b) Shall assist the executive council in conducting and submitting annual updates  to the inter-
operability plan, in coordination and collaboration with the emergency responders in this state;
(c) Shall ensure that the interoperability plan  aligns with and supports the Enterprise Informa-
tion Resources Management Strategy;
(d) Shall identify funding opportunities for planned interoperability improvements and coordinate
efforts to acquire funding;
(e) Shall engage stakeholders to coordinate strategic interoperability plans;
(f) Shall serve as a member of the National Council  of Statewide Interoperability Coordinators;
and
Enrolled Senate Bill 826 (SB 826-A) Page 4
(g) Shall represent the  State of Oregon in local, regional and national efforts to plan and im-
plement changes required to ensure communications operability, interoperability and continuity of
communications for emergency responders in this state.
(3) Public bodies, as defined in ORS 174.109,  that own or operate public safety communications
infrastructure may collaborate and coordinate the public bodies’ efforts and  investments to achieve
the statewide  interoperability goal the executive council sets and implement the interoperability
plan the executive council approves.
(4) Under the direction of the executive council and the [ State Chief  Information Officer ] Di-
rector of the Oregon Department of Emergency Management , the statewide  interoperability
coordinator may mediate  disputes between public bodies collaborating to implement interoperable
public safety communications systems.
SECTION 11.
 ORS 403.465 is amended to read:
403.465. In consultation with the State Interoperability Executive Council created  in ORS
403.450, the [ State Chief Information Officer ] Director of the Oregon Department of Emergency
Management shall:
(1) Facilitate decision making and planning for potential implementation  of the FirstNet net-
work; and
(2) Make recommendations to the state agency responsible for administering federal  funds from
the United States Department  of Commerce, National Telecommunications and Information Admin-
istration.
FISCAL PROVISIONS
SECTION 12. (1) On or before January 1 of each odd-numbered  year, the Oregon De-
partment of Emergency Management shall estimate the expenses the department  will incur
in the biennium beginning July 1 of the  same year to carry out the provisions of ORS 403.450,
403.455, 403.460 and 403.465 and section 1, chapter 825,  Oregon Laws 2005. The department
shall report  the estimate to the Oregon Department of Administrative Services and the
Legislative Fiscal Officer.
(2) The Oregon Department of Emergency Management shall charge an  assessment to
each public body in state government so as to recoup the costs estimated under subsection
(1) of this section. Each public body in state government shall pay to the credit of the de-
partment the amount the public body was assessed under this subsection as an  administra-
tive expense from funds or appropriations  available to the public body in the same manner
as other claims against the public body are paid.
(3) The department shall adopt rules specifying  the method for allocating the expenses
described in subsection (1) of this section among public bodies  in state government and for
collecting the assessments described in this section. The department shall  deposit assess-
ments collected under this section into the Statewide Interoperability Fund established under
section 13 of this 2025 Act.
(4) As used in this section:
(a) “Public body” has the meaning given that term in ORS 174.109.
(b) “State government” has the meaning given that term in ORS 174.111.
SECTION 13.
The Statewide Interoperability Fund is established in  the State Treasury,
separate and distinct  from the General Fund. Interest earned by the Statewide Interoper-
ability Fund must  be credited to the fund. The fund consists of moneys deposited in the fund
under section 12 of this 2025 Act  and may include moneys appropriated, allocated, deposited
or transferred to the fund by the Legislative Assembly or otherwise and interest  earned on
moneys in the  fund. The moneys in the fund are continuously appropriated to the Oregon
Department of Emergency  Management to carry out the provisions of ORS 403.450, 403.455,
403.460 and 403.465 and section 1, chapter 825, Oregon Laws 2005.
Enrolled Senate Bill 826 (SB 826-A) Page 5
SECTION 14. Notwithstanding the deadline specified in section 12 (1) of this 2025  Act, the
Oregon Department of  Emergency Management shall make the estimate required under
section 12 of this 2025 Act for the biennium beginning July 1, 2025, on or  before July 1, 2025.
UNIT CAPTIONS
SECTION 15. The unit captions used in this 2025 Act are provided  only for the conven-
ience of the reader and do not become part of the statutory law of  this state or express any
legislative intent in the enactment of this 2025 Act.
EMERGENCY CLAUSE
SECTION 16. This 2025 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation  of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist, and  this 2025 Act takes effect
July 1, 2025.
Passed by Senate June 10, 2025
..................................................................................
Obadiah Rutledge, Secretary of Senate
..................................................................................
Rob Wagner, President of Senate
Passed by House June 16, 2025
..................................................................................
Julie Fahey, Speaker of House
Received by Governor:
........................M.,........................................................., 2025
Approved:
........................M.,........................................................., 2025
..................................................................................
Tina Kotek, Governor
Filed in Office of Secretary of State:
........................M.,........................................................., 2025
..................................................................................
Tobias Read, Secretary of State
Enrolled Senate Bill 826 (SB 826-A) Page 6