1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2019
Sponsored by Representative ELMER (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Creates a new state day to celebrate adoption. (Flesch Readability Score: 71.8).
Designates August 25 of each year as Oregon Adoption Day.
Declares an emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to Oregon Adoption Day; and declaring an emergency.
Whereas every child deserves a happy childhood and a permanent, nurturing and loving  family;
and
Whereas every day,  families are strengthened and expanded when committed and dedicated in-
dividuals make an important difference in the life of a child through adoption; and
Whereas nearly a quarter of individuals  in the United States have considered adoption, but
many individuals have misperceptions about the process of adopting children; and
Whereas it is essential that national, state and local governments strive to  make it easier for
more children to find safe  and caring homes and to ensure that adoptive families have the support
they need; and
Whereas National Adoption Day currently raises awareness  of children in foster care, but it is
equally important that we celebrate individuals of all ages who are adoptees and honor  all families
that have been built through adoption; and
Whereas an annual statewide  day of celebration in Oregon will recognize the bonds of love
shared by adoptive families across this state and celebrate the thousands  of adoptive families who
have opened their hearts to provide safe and caring homes; and
Whereas bringing awareness to adoption through an annual statewide day of  celebration will
encourage more Oregonians to consider growing their families through adoption; now, therefore,
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
August 25 of each year is designated as Oregon Adoption Day.
SECTION 2. This 2025 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the  public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is  declared to exist, and this 2025 Act takes effect
on its passage.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1376