83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Enrolled
Senate Bill 167
Printed pursuant to Senate Interim  Rule 213.28 by order of the President of the Senate in conform-
ance with presession filing rules, indicating neither advocacy nor  opposition on the part of the
President (at the request of Senate Interim Committee on Judiciary for Oregon State Bar)
CHAPTER .................................................
AN ACT
Relating to the Uniform Commercial Code; creating new  provisions; and amending ORS 71.1010,
71.2010, 71.2040, 71.3010, 71.3060,  72.1020, 72.1030, 72.1060, 72.2010, 72.2020, 72.2030, 72.2050,
72.2090, 72A.1020, 72A.1030, 72A.1070, 72A.2010, 72A.2020, 72A.2030, 72A.2050, 72A.2080,  73.0104,
73.0105, 73.0401, 73.0604, 74A.1030, 74A.2010, 74A.2020,  74A.2030, 74A.2070, 74A.2080, 74A.2100,
74A.2110, 74A.3050, 75.1040, 75.1160, 77.1020, 77.1060, 78.1020, 78.1030, 78.1060, 78.1100, 78.3030,
79.0102, 79.0104, 79.0105, 79.0203, 79.0204, 79.0207, 79.0208, 79.0209,  79.0210, 79.0301, 79.0304,
79.0305, 79.0310, 79.0312, 79.0313,  79.0314, 79.0316, 79.0317, 79.0323, 79.0324, 79.0330, 79.0331,
79.0332, 79.0334, 79.0341, 79.0404, 79.0406, 79.0408, 79.0509, 79.0513,  79.0601, 79.0605, 79.0608,
79.0611, 79.0613, 79.0614, 79.0615, 79.0616, 79.0619, 79.0620, 79.0621,  79.0624, 79.0628, 87.142,
87.700, 95.270, 576.715, 576.780, 650.210, 801.465 and 830.700.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
AMENDMENTS FROM UCC ARTICLE 1
TO ORS CHAPTER 71
SECTION 1.  ORS 71.1010 is amended to read:
71.1010. (1) This chapter and ORS chapters 72, 72A, 73, 74, 74A, 75, 77, 78  and 79  and sections
94 to 100 of this 2025 Act  may be cited as the Uniform Commercial Code.
(2) This chapter may be cited as Uniform Commercial Code-General Provisions.
SECTION 2.
 ORS 71.2010 is amended to read:
71.2010. (1)  Unless the context otherwise requires, words or phrases defined in this section, or
in the additional definitions contained in other chapters of the Uniform Commercial  Code that apply
to particular chapters or parts thereof, have the meanings stated.
(2) Subject to definitions contained in other chapters of  the Uniform Commercial Code that ap-
ply to particular chapters or parts thereof:
(a) “Action”  in the sense of a judicial proceeding includes recoupment, counterclaim, setoff, suit
in equity and any other proceedings in which rights are determined.
(b) “Aggrieved party” means a party entitled to pursue a remedy.
(c) “Agreement,” as distinguished from “contract,” means  the bargain of the parties in fact as
found in their language or inferred from other circumstances  including course of performance,
course of dealing or usage of trade as provided in ORS 71.3030.
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 1
(d) “Bank” means a person  engaged in the business of banking and includes a savings bank,
savings and loan association, credit union and trust company.
(e) “Bearer” means a person in control of a negotiable electronic document of title or a person
in possession of a negotiable instrument, negotiable tangible document of title  or certificated secu-
rity that is payable to bearer or indorsed in blank.
(f) “Bill of lading” means a document of title evidencing  the receipt of goods for shipment issued
by a person engaged in the business of directly or indirectly transporting or forwarding goods. The
term does not include a warehouse receipt.
(g) “Branch” includes a separately incorporated foreign branch of a bank.
(h) “Burden of establishing” a  fact means the burden of persuading the trier of fact that the
existence of the fact is more probable than its nonexistence.
(i) “Buyer in ordinary course of business” means  a person that buys goods in good faith, without
knowledge that the sale violates the rights of another person in the goods, and in the  ordinary
course from a person, other than a pawnbroker, in the business of  selling goods of that kind. A
person buys goods in the ordinary course if the  sale to the person comports with the usual or cus-
tomary practices  in the kind of business in which the seller is engaged or with the seller’s own usual
or customary practices. A person that sells oil, gas or other minerals at the wellhead  or minehead
is a person in the business of selling goods of that kind. A buyer in ordinary course of  business may
buy for cash, by exchange of other property, or on secured or unsecured credit, and may  acquire
goods or documents of title under a  preexisting contract for sale. Only a buyer that takes possession
of the goods or has a right to recover the goods from the seller under ORS chapter 72 may be  a
buyer in ordinary course of business. “Buyer in ordinary  course of business” does not include a
person that acquires goods in a transfer in bulk or as security  for or in total or partial satisfaction
of a money debt.
(j) “Conspicuous,” with reference  to a term, means so written, displayed or presented that ,
based on  the totality of the circumstances,  a reasonable person against which it is to operate
ought to have noticed it. Whether a term is  “conspicuous” or not is a decision for the court. [ Con-
spicuous terms include the following: ]
[(A) A heading in capitals equal to or greater in size in  than the surrounding text, or in con-
trasting type, font or color to the surrounding text of the same or lesser size; and ]
[(B) Language in the body of  a record or display in larger type than the surrounding text, or in
contrasting type, font or color to the  surrounding text of the same size, or set off from the surrounding
text of the same size by symbols or other marks that call attention to the language. ]
(k) “Consumer” means an individual who enters into a transaction primarily  for personal, family
or household purposes.
(L) “Contract,” as distinguished from “agreement,” means the total legal obligation that  results
from the parties’ agreement as determined by  the Uniform Commercial Code as supplemented by any
other applicable laws.
(m) “Creditor” includes a general creditor, a secured creditor, a lien creditor and any repre-
sentative of creditors, including an assignee for the benefit of  creditors, a trustee in bankruptcy, a
receiver in equity and an executor or administrator of an insolvent debtor’s or assignor’s estate.
(n) “Defendant” includes a person in the position  of defendant in a counterclaim, cross claim
or third party claim.
(o) “Delivery,” with respect to an electronic document of title , means voluntary  transfer of
control  and , with respect to an instrument, a tangible document of title[ ,] or  an authoritative
tangible copy of a record evidencing  chattel paper , means voluntary transfer of possession.
(p)(A) “Document of title” means a record:
(i) That in the regular course of business or  financing is treated as adequately evidencing that
the person in possession or control of the record is entitled to receive, control, hold and dispose of
the record and the goods the record covers; and
(ii) That purports to be issued by or addressed to a bailee and to cover goods  in the bailee’s
possession that are either identified or are fungible portions of an identified mass.
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 2
(B) The term includes a bill of lading, transport  document, dock warrant, dock receipt, ware-
house receipt and order for delivery of goods.
(C) “Electronic document of title” means  a document of title evidenced by a record consisting
of information stored in an electronic medium.
(D) “Tangible document of title” means a document of title evidenced by a record  consisting of
information that is inscribed on a tangible medium.
(q) “Electronic” means relating to technology having electrical,  digital, magnetic,
wireless, optical, electromagnetic or similar capabilities.
[(q)] (r)  “Fault” means default, breach or wrongful act or omission.
[(r)] (s)  “Fungible goods” means:
(A) Goods of which any unit, by nature or usage of trade, is the equivalent of any other  like
unit; or
(B) Goods that by agreement are treated as equivalent.
[(s)] (t)  “Genuine” means free of forgery or counterfeiting.
[(t)] (u)  “Good faith,” except as otherwise provided in ORS chapter 75, means honesty in fact
and the observance of reasonable commercial standards of fair dealing.
[(u)] (v) “Holder” means:
(A) The person in possession of a negotiable instrument that  is payable either to bearer or to
an identified person that is the person in possession;
(B) The person in possession of a negotiable tangible document of title if the  goods are deliv-
erable either to bearer or to the order of the person in possession; or
(C) The person in control , other than pursuant to ORS  77.1060 (7), of a negotiable electronic
document of title.
[(v)] (w)  “Insolvency proceeding” includes an  assignment for the benefit of creditors or other
proceeding intended to liquidate or rehabilitate the estate of the person involved.
[(w)] (x)  “Insolvent” means:
(A) Having generally ceased to pay debts in the ordinary course of business other  than as a
result of bona fide dispute;
(B) Being unable to pay debts as they become due; or
(C) Being insolvent within the meaning of federal bankruptcy law.
[(x)] (y)  “Money” means a medium  of exchange  that is  currently authorized or adopted by a
domestic or foreign government. The term includes a monetary  unit of account established by an
intergovernmental organization or by agreement between two or more countries.  The term does
not include an electronic record that is a medium of exchange recorded and  transferable in
a system that existed and operated for  the medium of exchange before the medium of ex-
change was authorized or adopted by the government.
[(y)] (z)  “Organization” means a person other than an individual.
[(z)] (aa)  “Party,” as distinguished from “third party,” means  a person that has engaged in a
transaction or made an agreement subject to the Uniform Commercial Code.
[(aa)] (bb) “Person” means an individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust, partnership,
limited liability company, association,  joint venture, government, governmental subdivision, agency
or instrumentality[ , public corporation ] or any other legal or commercial  entity.  The term includes
a protected series, however denominated, of an entity if the protected series is established
under law other than the Uniform Commercial Code that limits, or limits if conditions
specified under the law are satisfied, the ability of a creditor of the entity or of any other
protected series of the entity to satisfy a claim from assets of the protected series.
[(bb)] (cc)  “Present value” means the amount as of a date certain of one or more sums payable
in the future, discounted to the date certain by use  of either an interest rate specified by the parties
if that rate is not manifestly unreasonable at the  time the transaction is entered into or, if an in-
terest rate is not so specified, a commercially reasonable rate  that takes into account the facts and
circumstances at the time the transaction is entered into.
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 3
[(cc)] (dd) “Purchase” means taking by sale, lease, discount, negotiation, mortgage, pledge, lien,
security interest, issue or reissue,  gift or any other voluntary transaction creating an interest in
property.
[(dd)] (ee)  “Purchaser” means a person that takes by purchase.
[(ee)] (ff)  “Record”  means information that is inscribed on a tangible medium or that is stored
in an electronic or other medium and is retrievable in perceivable form.
[(ff)] (gg)  “Remedy” means any remedial right to  which an aggrieved party is entitled with or
without resort to a tribunal.
[(gg)] (hh)  “Representative” means a person empowered  to act for another, including an agent,
an officer of a corporation or association and a trustee, executor, or administrator of an estate.
[(hh)] (ii) “Right” includes remedy.
[(ii)(A)] (jj)(A)  “Security interest” means  an interest in personal property or fixtures which se-
cures  payment  or performance of an obligation. “Security interest” includes any interest of a
consignor and a buyer of accounts,  chattel paper, a payment intangible or a promissory note in a
transaction that is subject to ORS chapter 79.
(B) “Security interest” does not  include the special property interest of a buyer of goods on
identification of such goods to a contract for sale under ORS 72.4010,  but a buyer may also acquire
a “security interest” by complying with ORS chapter 79.
(C) Except as otherwise provided in ORS 72.5050, the right of a  seller or lessor of goods under
ORS chapter 72 or 72A to  retain or acquire possession of the goods is not a “security interest,” but
a seller or lessor may also acquire a “security interest” by complying with ORS chapter 79.
(D) The retention or  reservation of title by a seller of goods notwithstanding shipment or de-
livery to the buyer under ORS 72.4010 is limited in effect to a reservation of a “security interest.”
(E) Whether a transaction  in the form of a lease creates a security interest is determined pur-
suant to ORS 71.2030.
[(jj)] (kk)  “Send ,” in connection with a [ writing,] record or [ notice] notification, means:
(A) To deposit in the  mail , [ or] deliver for transmission  or transmit  by any other usual means
of communication , with postage or cost of transmission provided for , [ and properly addressed and
in the case of an instrument to an address specified thereon or otherwise agreed, or if there  be none ]
addressed to any address reasonable under the circumstances; or
(B) [ In any other way to cause to be received any record or notice within the time it would have
arrived if properly sent ] To cause the record or notification to  be received within the time it
would have been received if properly sent under subparagraph (A) of this paragraph .
[(kk)] (LL)(A) [“Signed” includes using any  symbol executed or adopted with present intention to
adopt or accept a writing. ] “Sign” means,  with present intent to authenticate or adopt a record,
to:
(i) Execute or adopt a tangible symbol; or
(ii) Attach to or  logically associate with the record an electronic symbol, sound or proc-
ess.
(B) “Signed,” “signing,” and “signature” have corresponding meanings.
[(LL)] (mm)  “State” means a state of the  United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico,
the United States Virgin Islands or  any territory or insular possession subject to the jurisdiction
of the United States.
[(mm)] (nn) “Surety” includes a guarantor or other secondary obligor.
[(nn)] (oo)  “Term” means a portion of an agreement that relates to a particular matter.
[(oo)] (pp) “Unauthorized signature” means a signature made without actual, implied or apparent
authority. The term includes a forgery.
[(pp)] (qq)  “Warehouse receipt” means a document of title issued  by a person engaged in the
business of storing goods for hire.
[(qq)] (rr)  “Writing”  includes printing, typewriting or any other intentional reduction to tangible
form. “Written” has a corresponding meaning.
SECTION 3.
 ORS 71.2040 is amended to read:
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 4
71.2040. Except as  otherwise provided in ORS chapters 73, 74 and 75  and sections 94 to 100
of this 2025 Act , a person gives value for rights if the person acquires them:
(1) In return for a binding commitment to extend credit or for the  extension of immediately
available credit, whether or not drawn upon and whether or  not a charge-back is provided for in the
event of difficulties in collection;
(2) As security for, or in total or partial satisfaction of, a preexisting claim;
(3) By accepting delivery under a preexisting contract for purchase; or
(4) In return for any consideration sufficient to support a simple contract.
SECTION 4.
 ORS 71.3010 is amended to read:
71.3010. (1) Except as provided in this section, when a transaction bears  a reasonable relation
to this state and also to another state or nation, the parties may agree that the law either  of this
state or of such other state or nation shall govern their rights and duties.
(2) In the absence of such an agreement effective under subsection (1) of this section  and except
as provided in subsection (3) of this section, the Uniform Commercial Code applies to  transactions
bearing an appropriate relation to this state.
(3) If one of the following provisions of the  Uniform Commercial Code specifies the applicable
law, that provision governs and  a contrary agreement is effective only to the extent permitted by
the law so specified:
(a) Rights of creditors against sold goods as specified in ORS 72.4020.
(b) Applicability of ORS chapter 72A on leases.
(c) Applicability of ORS chapter 74 as specified in ORS 74.1020.
(d) Applicability of ORS chapter 74A as specified in ORS 74A.5070.
(e) Applicability of ORS chapter 75 as specified in ORS 75.1160.
(f) Applicability of ORS chapter 78 as specified in ORS 78.1100.
(g) ORS 79.0301 to 79.0307 governing perfection, the effect of perfection or nonperfection and the
priority of security interests and agricultural liens.
(h) Applicability of section 100 of this 2025 Act, as specified in section 100 of this 2025
Act.
SECTION 5.
 ORS 71.3060 is amended to read:
71.3060. A claim or right arising out of an alleged breach may be discharged in whole  or in part
without consideration by agreement of the aggrieved party in [ an authenticated] a signed  record.
AMENDMENTS FROM UCC ARTICLE 2
TO ORS CHAPTER 72
SECTION 6.  ORS 72.1020 is amended to read:
72.1020. [Unless the context otherwise requires, this chapter applies  to transactions in goods; they
do not apply to  any transaction which although in the form of an unconditional contract to sell or
present sale is intended to operate only as a security transaction nor does this  chapter impair or repeal
any statute regulating sales to consumers, farmers or other specified classes of buyers. ]
(1) Unless the context otherwise requires, and except as provided  in subsection (3) of this
section, this chapter applies to transactions in goods and, in the case of a hybrid  transaction
as defined in ORS 72.1060, it applies to the extent provided in subsection (2) of this section.
(2) In a hybrid transaction:
(a) If the sale-of-goods aspects do not predominate, only  the provisions of this chapter
that relate primarily to the sale-of-goods aspects  of the transaction apply and the provisions
that relate primarily to the transaction as a whole do not apply.
(b) If the sale-of-goods aspects  predominate, this chapter applies to the transaction but
does not preclude application, in appropriate circumstances, of other law to  aspects of the
transaction that do not relate to the sale of goods.
(3) This chapter does not:
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 5
(a) Apply to a transaction that, even though in the form of an unconditional contract to
sell or present sale, operates only to create a security interest; or
(b) Impair or repeal a statute regulating sales to consumers, farmers or other  specified
classes of buyers.
SECTION 7.  ORS 72.1030 is amended to read:
72.1030. (1) In this chapter unless the context otherwise requires:
(a) “Buyer” means a person who buys or contracts to buy goods.
(b) “Livestock” means equines, cattle, sheep, goats, llamas, alpacas and swine.
(c) “Receipt” of goods means taking physical possession of them.
(d) “Seller” means a person who sells or contracts to sell goods.
(2) Other definitions applying to this chapter, and the sections in which they appear are:
(a) “Acceptance,” as defined in ORS 72.6060.
(b) “Banker’s credit,” as defined in ORS 72.3250.
(c) “Between merchants,” as defined in ORS 72.1040.
(d) “Cancellation,” as defined in ORS 72.1060 (4).
(e) “Commercial unit,” as defined in ORS 72.1050.
(f) “Confirmed credit,” as defined in ORS 72.3250.
(g) “Conforming to contract,” as defined in ORS 72.1060.
(h) “Contract for sale,” as defined in ORS 72.1060.
(i) “Cover,” as defined in ORS 72.7120.
(j) “Entrusting,” as defined in ORS 72.4030.
(k) “Financing agency,” as defined in ORS 72.1040.
(L) “Future goods,” as defined in ORS 72.1050.
(m) “Goods,” as defined in ORS 72.1050.
(n) “Hybrid transaction,” as defined in ORS 72.1060.
[(n)] (o)  “Identification,” as defined in ORS 72.5010.
[(o)] (p) “Installment contract,” as defined in ORS 72.6120.
[(p)] (q) “Letter of credit,” as defined in ORS 72.3250.
[(q)] (r)  “Lot,” as defined in ORS 72.1050.
[(r)] (s)  “Merchant,” as defined in ORS 72.1040.
[(s)] (t)  “Overseas,” as defined in ORS 72.3230.
[(t)] (u)  “Person in position of seller,” as defined in ORS 72.7070.
[(u)] (v)  “Present sale,” as defined in ORS 72.1060.
[(v)] (w) “Sale,” as defined in ORS 72.1060.
[(w)] (x)  “Sale on approval,” as defined in ORS 72.3260.
[(x)] (y)  “Sale or return,” as defined in ORS 72.3260.
[(y)] (z)  “Termination,” as defined in ORS 72.1060.
(3) “Control” as provided in ORS 77.1060 and the  following definitions in other series of sections
apply to this chapter:
(a) “Check,” as defined in ORS 73.0104.
(b) “Consignee,” as defined in ORS 77.1020.
(c) “Consignor,” as defined in ORS 77.1020.
(d) “Consumer goods,” as defined in ORS 79.0102.
(e) “Dishonor,” as defined in ORS 73.0502.
(f) “Draft,” as defined in ORS 73.0104.
(4) In addition, ORS chapter 71 contains general definitions and principles of  construction and
interpretation applicable throughout this chapter.
SECTION 8.
 ORS 72.1060 is amended to read:
72.1060. (1) In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, “contract” and “agreement”
are limited to those relating to the present or future  sale of goods. “Contract for sale” includes both
a present sale of  goods and a contract to sell goods at a future time. A “sale” consists in the passing
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 6
of title from the seller to the buyer for  a price. A “present sale” means a sale which is accomplished
by the making of the contract.
(2) Goods or conduct including any  part of a performance are “conforming” or conform to the
contract when they are in accordance with the obligations under the contract.
(3) “Termination” occurs when either party pursuant to a  power created by agreement or law
puts an end to the contract otherwise than for its breach. On  “termination” all obligations which
are still  executory on both sides are discharged but any right based on prior breach or performance
survives.
(4) “Cancellation” occurs  when either party puts an end to the contract for breach by the other
and its effect is the same as that of “termination” except that the  canceling party also retains any
remedy for breach of the whole contract or any unperformed balance.
(5) “Hybrid transaction” means a single transaction involving a sale of goods and:
(a) The provision of services;
(b) A lease of other goods; or
(c) A sale, lease or license of property other than goods.
SECTION 9.
 ORS 72.2010 is amended to read:
72.2010. (1) Except as otherwise provided in  this section a contract for the sale of goods for the
price of $500 or more is not enforceable by way of action  or defense unless there is [ some writing ]
a record  sufficient to indicate that a contract for sale has been made  between the parties and
signed by the party against whom enforcement is sought or by the authorized  agent or broker of the
party. A  [ writing] record  is not insufficient because it omits or incorrectly states a term agreed
upon but the contract is not enforceable under this subsection beyond the quantity  of goods shown
in [ such writing ] the record .
(2) Between merchants,  if within a reasonable time a [ writing] record  in confirmation of the
contract and sufficient against the sender  is received and the party receiving it has reason to know
its contents, it satisfies the  requirements of subsection (1) of this section against [ such] the  party
unless [ written] notice  in a record  of  objection to its contents is given within 10 days after it is
received.
(3) A contract [ which] that  does not satisfy the requirements of subsection (1) of  this section
but [ which] that  is valid in other respects is enforceable:
(a) If the goods are to be specially manufactured  for the buyer and are not suitable for sale to
others in the ordinary course of the seller’s  business and the seller, before notice of repudiation is
received and under circumstances [ which] that  reasonably indicate that  the goods are for the buyer,
has made either a substantial beginning of their manufacture  or commitments for their procurement;
or
(b) If the  party against whom enforcement is sought admits in pleading, testimony or otherwise
in court that a contract for sale was made, but the contract is  not enforceable under this provision
beyond the quantity of goods admitted; or
(c) With respect to goods for which payment has been made and accepted or [ which] that  have
been received and accepted in accordance with ORS 72.6060.
SECTION 10.  ORS 72.2020 is amended to read:
72.2020. Terms with respect to which the confirmatory memoranda of the  parties agree or which
are otherwise set forth  in a [ writing] record intended by the parties as a final expression of their
agreement with respect to such terms as are included therein may not be  contradicted by evidence
of any prior agreement or of a contemporaneous oral  agreement but may be explained or supple-
mented:
(1) By course of performance, course of dealing or usage  of trade as provided in ORS 71.3030;
and
(2) By evidence of  consistent additional terms unless the court finds the [ writing] record to have
been intended also as a complete and exclusive statement of the terms of the agreement.
SECTION 11.  ORS 72.2030 is amended to read:
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 7
72.2030. The affixing of a seal to a [ writing] record evidencing a contract for sale or an offer
to buy or  sell goods does not [ constitute the writing ] render the record a sealed instrument and the
law with respect to sealed instruments does not apply to such a contract or offer.
SECTION 12.  ORS 72.2050 is amended to read:
72.2050. An offer by a merchant to buy or sell goods in a signed [ writing which ] record that
by its terms gives assurance that it will be held open is  not revocable, for lack of consideration,
during the time stated or if no time is stated for a reasonable time, but in no event  may such period
of irrevocability exceed three months[ ; but]. Any such term of assurance on a form supplied by the
offeree must be separately signed by the offeror.
SECTION 13.  ORS 72.2090 is amended to read:
72.2090. (1) An agreement modifying a contract within  this chapter needs no consideration to
be binding.
(2) A signed agreement [ which] that  excludes modification or rescission except by  a signed
writing or other signed record  cannot be otherwise modified or rescinded, but except as between
merchants such  a requirement on a form supplied by the merchant must be separately signed by the
other party.
(3) The requirements of ORS 72.2010, relating to the statute of frauds must be satisfied if the
contract as modified is within its provisions.
(4) Although an attempt at modification or rescission does not satisfy the requirements of sub-
section (2) or (3) of this section, it can operate as a waiver.
(5) A party who has made a waiver affecting an executory portion of  the contract may retract
the waiver by reasonable notification received by  the other party that strict performance will be
required of  any term waived, unless the retraction would be unjust in view of a material change of
position in reliance on the waiver.
AMENDMENTS FROM UCC ARTICLE 2A
TO ORS CHAPTER 72A
SECTION 14.  ORS 72A.1020 is amended to read:
72A.1020. (1) This chapter applies to any transaction, regardless of form, that creates a  lease[ .]
and, in the case of a hybrid lease  as defined in ORS 72A.1030, it applies to the extent provided
in subsection (2) of this section.
(2) In a hybrid lease:
(a) If the lease-of-goods aspects do not predominate:
(A) Only the provisions of this chapter that relate primarily to  the lease-of-goods aspects
of the transaction apply and the provisions that relate primarily to  the transaction as a
whole do not apply;
(B) ORS 72A.2090 applies if the lease is a finance lease; and
(C) ORS 72A.4070 applies to the promises of the lessee in a  finance lease to the extent
the promises are consideration for the right to possession and use of the leased goods; and
(b) If the lease-of-goods aspects predominate, this chapter applies to the transaction  but
does not preclude application,  in appropriate circumstances, of other law to aspects of the
lease that do not relate to the lease of goods.
SECTION 15.
 ORS 72A.1030 is amended to read:
72A.1030. (1) As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
(a) “Buyer in ordinary course of  business” means a person who in good faith and without
knowledge that the sale to the person is in violation of the ownership  rights or security interest or
leasehold interest of a third party in the goods buys in ordinary course from a person in the  busi-
ness of selling goods of that kind but does not include a  pawnbroker. “Buying” may be for cash or
by exchange of other property or on secured or unsecured credit and  includes acquiring goods or
documents of title under a preexisting contract for sale but does not include a transfer  in bulk or
as security for or in total or partial satisfaction of a money debt.
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 8
(b) “Cancellation” occurs when  either party puts an end to the lease contract for default by the
other party.
(c) “Commercial unit” means such a unit of goods as by commercial usage  is a single whole for
purposes of lease and division of which materially impairs its character or value  on the market or
in use. A “commercial unit” may be a single article, as  a machine, or a set of articles, as a suite
of furniture or a line of machinery, or a quantity, as a gross or carload, or any other  unit treated
in use or in the relevant market as a single whole.
(d) “Conforming  goods” or “performance under a lease contract” means goods or performance
that are in accordance with the obligations under the lease contract.
(e) “Consumer lease” means a lease that a lessor  regularly engaged in the business of leasing
or selling  makes to a lessee who is an individual and who takes under the lease primarily for a
personal, family or household purpose, if the total payments to be made under the  lease contract,
excluding payments for options to renew or buy, do not exceed $25,000.
(f) “Fault” means wrongful act, omission, breach or default.
(g) “Finance lease” means a lease in which  the lessor does not select, manufacture or supply the
goods, the lessor acquires the goods or the right to possession and use of the goods in  connection
with the lease, and either:
(A) The lessee receives a copy of the contract evidencing the lessor’s purchase of the goods on
or before signing the lease contract;
(B) The lessee’s approval of  the contract evidencing the lessor’s purchase of the goods is a
condition to effectiveness of the lease contract;
(C) The lessor informs the lessee in writing of the identity of the supplier unless the  lessee has
selected the supplier and directed the lessor to purchase the goods from the supplier;
(D) The lessor informs the lessee in writing that the lessee may have rights under the contract
evidencing the lessor’s purchase of  the goods and the lessor advises the lessee in writing to contact
the supplier for a description of any such rights; or
(E) The lease contract discloses all warranties and other rights provided to the lessee by  the
lessor and supplier  in connection with the lease contract and informs the lessee that there are no
warranties or other rights provided to the lessee by the lessor and supplier other  than those dis-
closed in the lease contract.
(h) “Goods” means all things that are movable  at the time of identification to the lease contract,
or are fixtures as provided in ORS  72A.3090, but “goods” does not include money, documents, in-
struments, accounts, chattel paper, general intangibles or minerals or  the like, including oil and gas,
before extraction. “Goods” also includes the unborn young of animals.
(i) “Hybrid lease” means a single transaction involving a lease of goods and:
(A) The provision of services;
(B) A sale of other goods; or
(C) A sale, lease or license of property other than goods.
[(i)] (j)  “Installment lease contract” means a lease contract that authorizes or requires the de-
livery of goods in separate lots to be separately accepted, even  though the lease contract contains
a clause “each delivery is a separate lease” or its equivalent.
[(j)] (k) “Lease” means a transfer of the right to possession and use of goods for a term in return
for consideration,  but a sale, including a sale on approval or a sale or return, or retention or cre-
ation of a security  interest is not a lease. Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, “lease”
includes a sublease.
[(k)] (L)  “Lease agreement” means the bargain, with respect to the  lease, of the lessor and the
lessee in fact as found in the language or by implication  from other circumstances including course
of dealing or usage of  trade or course of performance as provided in this chapter. Unless the context
clearly indicates otherwise, “lease agreement” includes a sublease agreement.
[(L)] (m)  “Lease contract” means the total legal obligation that results from the lease agreement
as affected by this chapter and any other applicable rules of law. Unless  the context clearly indi-
cates otherwise, “lease contract” includes a sublease contract.
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 9
[(m)] (n)  “Leasehold interest” means the  interest of the lessor or the lessee under a lease con-
tract.
[(n)] (o)  “Lessee” means a person who acquires the right  to possession and use of goods under
a lease. Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, “lessee” includes a sublessee.
[(o)] (p) “Lessee in ordinary course of business” means a person who in good faith and  without
knowledge that the lease to the person is  in violation of the ownership rights or security interest
or leasehold interest of a  third party in the goods leases in ordinary course from a person in the
business of selling or leasing  goods of that kind but does not include a pawnbroker. “Leasing” may
be for cash or by exchange  of other property or on secured or unsecured credit and includes ac-
quiring goods or documents of title under a preexisting lease contract but does not include  a
transfer in bulk or as security for or in total or partial satisfaction of a money debt.
[(p)] (q)  “Lessor” means a  person who transfers the right to possession and use of goods under
a lease. Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, “lessor” includes a sublessor.
[(q)] (r)  “Lessor’s residual interest” means the lessor’s interest in the goods after expiration,
termination or cancellation of the lease contract.
[(r)] (s)  “Lien” means a charge against or interest in goods to  secure payment of a debt or
performance of an obligation, but “lien” does not include a security interest.
[(s)] (t)  “Lot” means a parcel or a single article that is the subject matter of a separate lease
or delivery, whether or not it is sufficient to perform the lease contract.
[(t)] (u)  “Merchant lessee” means a lessee that is a merchant with respect to goods of the kind
subject to the lease.
[(u)] (v)  “Present value” means the amount as of a  date certain of one or more sums payable in
the future, discounted to the date certain. The discount is determined by the interest rate specified
by the parties if the rate was not manifestly unreasonable at  the time the transaction was entered
into; otherwise, the discount is determined  by a commercially reasonable rate that takes into ac-
count the facts and circumstances of each case at the time the transaction was entered into.
[(v)] (w)  “Purchase”  includes taking by sale, lease, mortgage, security interest, pledge, gift or
any other voluntary transaction creating an interest in goods.
[(w)] (x)  “Sublease” means a lease of goods the right to possession and  use of which was ac-
quired by the lessor as a lessee under an existing lease.
[(x)] (y)  “Supplier” means a person from whom a  lessor buys or leases goods to be leased under
a finance lease.
[(y)] (z)  “Supply contract” means  a contract under which a lessor buys or leases goods to be
leased.
[(z)] (aa)  “Termination” occurs when  either party pursuant to a power created by agreement
or law puts an end to the lease contract otherwise than for default.
(2) Other definitions applying to this chapter and the sections in which they appear are:
(a) “Accessions” as defined in ORS 72A.3100.
(b) “Account” as defined in ORS 79.0102.
(c) “Between merchants” as defined in ORS 72.1040.
(d) “Buyer” as defined in ORS 72.1030.
(e) “Chattel paper” as defined in ORS 79.0102.
(f) “Construction mortgage” as defined in ORS 72A.3090.
(g) “Consumer goods” as defined in ORS 79.0102.
(h) “Document” as defined in ORS 79.0102.
(i) “Encumbrance” as defined in ORS 72A.3090.
(j) “Entrusting” as defined in ORS 72.4030.
(k) “Fixture filing” as defined in ORS 72A.3090.
(L) “Fixtures” as defined in ORS 72A.3090.
(m) “General intangible” as defined in ORS 79.0102.
(n) “Instrument” as defined in ORS 79.0102.
(o) “Merchant” as defined in ORS 72.1040.
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 10
(p) “Mortgage” as defined in ORS 79.0102.
(q) “Purchase money lease” as defined in ORS 72A.3090.
(r) “Pursuant to commitment” as defined in ORS 79.0102.
(s) “Receipt” as defined in ORS 72.1030.
(t) “Sale” as defined in ORS 72.1060.
(u) “Sale on approval” as defined in ORS 72.3260.
(v) “Sale or return” as defined in ORS 72.3260.
(w) “Seller” as defined in ORS 72.1030.
(3) In addition,  ORS chapter 71 contains general definitions and principles of construction and
interpretation applicable throughout this chapter.
SECTION 16.
 ORS 72A.1070 is amended to read:
72A.1070. Any claim or right arising  out of an alleged default or breach of warranty may be
discharged in whole or in part without consideration by a [ written] waiver or  renunciation  in a
signed [ and] record delivered by the aggrieved party.
SECTION 17.  ORS 72A.2010 is amended to read:
72A.2010. (1) A lease contract is not enforceable by way of action or defense unless:
(a) The total payments to be made  under the lease contract, excluding payments for options to
renew or buy, are less than $1,000; or
(b) There is a [ writing] record, signed by the party against whom enforcement is sought  or by
that party’s authorized agent, sufficient to indicate that a lease  contract has been made between the
parties and to describe the goods leased and the lease term.
(2) Any description of leased goods or of the lease term is sufficient and satisfies  subsection
(1)(b) of this section, whether or not it is specific, if it reasonably identifies what is described.
(3) A [ writing] record  is not  insufficient because it omits or incorrectly states a term agreed
upon, but the lease contract is  not enforceable under subsection (1)(b) of this section beyond the
lease term and the quantity of goods shown in the [ writing] record.
(4) A lease  contract that does not satisfy the requirements of subsection (1) of this section, but
which is valid in other respects, is enforceable:
(a) If the goods are to be  specially manufactured or obtained for the lessee and are not suitable
for lease or sale to others in the ordinary course of the lessor’s business, and the  lessor, before
notice of repudiation is received and under circumstances that reasonably  indicate that the goods
are for the lessee, has  made either a substantial beginning of their manufacture or commitments for
their procurement;
(b) If the party against whom enforcement is sought admits in that party’s  pleading, testimony
or otherwise in  court that a lease contract was made, but the lease contract is not enforceable un-
der this provision beyond the quantity of goods admitted; or
(c) With respect to goods that have been received and accepted by the lessee.
(5) The lease term under a lease contract referred to in subsection (4) of this section is:
(a) If there is a [ writing] record signed by the party against whom enforcement  is sought or by
that party’s authorized agent specifying the lease term, the term so specified;
(b) If the party against whom enforcement is sought admits in that party’s  pleading, testimony
or otherwise in court a lease term, the term so admitted; or
(c) A reasonable lease term.
SECTION 18.
 ORS 72A.2020 is amended to read:
72A.2020. Terms with respect to which  the confirmatory memoranda of the parties agree or
which are otherwise set forth in a [ writing] record intended by the parties as  a final expression of
their agreement with respect to such  terms as are included therein may not be contradicted by ev-
idence of any prior agreement or of a contemporaneous oral agreement but may be explained or
supplemented:
(1) By course of dealing or usage of trade or by course of performance; and
(2) By evidence of  consistent additional terms unless the court finds the [ writing] record to have
been intended also as a complete and exclusive statement of the terms of the agreement.
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 11
SECTION 19.  ORS 72A.2030 is amended to read:
72A.2030. The affixing of a seal to a [ writing] record evidencing a lease contract or  an offer to
enter into a lease contract  does not render the [ writing] record  a sealed instrument and the law
with respect to sealed instruments does not apply to the lease contract or offer.
SECTION 20.  ORS 72A.2050 is amended to read:
72A.2050. An offer by  a merchant to lease goods to or from another person in a  signed
[writing] record that by its terms gives  assurance it will be held open is not revocable, for lack of
consideration, during the time stated or, if no time is stated, for a reasonable time, but in no  event
may the period of irrevocability exceed  three months. Any such term of assurance on a form sup-
plied by the offeree must be separately signed by the offeror.
SECTION 21.  ORS 72A.2080 is amended to read:
72A.2080. (1) An agreement modifying a lease contract needs no consideration to be binding.
(2) A signed lease agreement that excludes modification or rescission except by a signed
[writing] record  may not  be otherwise modified or rescinded, but, except as between merchants,
such a requirement on a form supplied  by a merchant must be separately signed by the other party.
(3) Although an attempt at modification or rescission does not satisfy the requirements of sub-
section (2) of this section, it may operate as a waiver.
(4) A party who has made a waiver affecting an executory portion of a lease contract may  re-
tract the waiver by reasonable notification received by the other party that strict  performance will
be required of any term waived, unless the retraction would be unjust in  view of a material change
of position in reliance on the waiver.
AMENDMENTS FROM UCC ARTICLE 3
TO ORS CHAPTER 73
SECTION 22.
 ORS 73.0104 is amended to read:
73.0104. (1)  Except as provided in subsections (3) and (4) of this section, “negotiable
instrument” means an unconditional promise or order  to pay a fixed amount of money, with or
without interest or other charges described in the promise or order, if it:
(a) Is payable to bearer or to order at the time it is issued or first comes into possession of a
holder;
(b) Is payable on demand or at a definite time; and
(c) Does not state any other undertaking or instruction by the  person promising or ordering
payment to do any act in addition to the payment of money, but the promise or order may contain:
(A) An undertaking or power to give, maintain or protect collateral to secure payment;
(B) An authorization or power to the  holder to confess judgment or realize on or dispose of
collateral; [or]
(C) A waiver of the benefit of any law intended for the advantage or protection of an
obligor[ .];
(D) A term that specifies the law that governs the promise or order; or
(E) An undertaking  to resolve in a specified forum a dispute concerning the promise or
order.
(2) “Instrument” means a negotiable instrument.
(3) An order that meets all of the requirements of  subsection (1) of this section, except sub-
section (1)(a) of this section, and otherwise falls within the definition of “check”  in subsection (6)
of this section, is a negotiable instrument and a check.
(4) A promise or order other than a check  is not an instrument if, at the time it is issued or first
comes into possession of  a holder, it contains a conspicuous statement, however expressed, to the
effect that the promise or order is not negotiable or is not an instrument governed by  this chapter.
(5) An instrument is a “note” if it is a promise. An instrument is a “draft” if it is an order.  If
an instrument falls within the  definition of both “note” and “draft,” a person entitled to enforce the
instrument may treat it as either.
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 12
(6) “Check” means a draft, other than  a documentary draft, payable on demand and drawn on
a bank, or a cashier’s check or teller’s check. An  instrument may be a check even though it is de-
scribed on its face by another term, such as “money order.”
(7) “Cashier’s check” means a draft with respect to which the drawer and  drawee are the same
bank or branches of the same bank.
(8) “Teller’s check” means a draft drawn by a bank:
(a) On another bank; or
(b) Payable at or through a bank.
(9) “Traveler’s check” means an instrument that:
(a) Is payable on demand;
(b) Is drawn on or payable at or through a bank;
(c) Is designated by the term “traveler’s check” or by a substantially similar term; and
(d) Requires, as a condition to payment, a  countersignature by a person whose specimen signa-
ture appears on the instrument.
(10) “Certificate of deposit”  means an instrument containing an acknowledgment by a bank that
a sum of money has been received by the bank and a promise by the bank  to repay the sum of
money. A certificate of deposit is a note of the bank.
(11)(a) “Demand draft” means a writing not signed by a customer that is created by a third party
under the purported authority of  the customer for the purpose of charging the customer’s account
with a bank. A demand draft does not include a check drawn by  a fiduciary, as defined in ORS
73.0307. A demand draft may contain any or all of the following:
(A) The customer’s printed or typewritten name or account number;
(B) A notation that the customer authorized the draft; and
(C) The statement “No signature required” or words to that effect.
(b) “Demand draft” shall not include a check purportedly drawn  by and bearing the signature
of a fiduciary as defined in ORS 73.0307.
SECTION 23.
 ORS 73.0105 is amended to read:
73.0105. (1) “Issue” means :
(a) The first delivery of an  instrument by the maker or drawer, whether to a holder or non-
holder, for the purpose of giving rights on the instrument to any person[ .]; or
(b) If agreed by the payee, the  first transmission by the drawer to the payee of an image
of an item and information derived from the item that enables the depository bank to  collect
the item by transferring or presenting under federal law an electronic check.
(2) An unissued instrument, or an unissued incomplete instrument that  is completed, is binding
on the maker or drawer, but nonissuance is a defense. An instrument that  is conditionally issued
or is  issued for a special purpose is binding on the maker or drawer, but failure of the condition
or special purpose to be fulfilled is a defense.
(3) “Issuer” applies to issued and unissued instruments and  means a maker or drawer of an in-
strument.
SECTION 24.  ORS 73.0401 is amended to read:
73.0401. [(1)] A person is not liable on an instrument unless:
[(a)] (1) The person signed the instrument; or
[(b)] (2) The  person is represented by an agent or representative who signed the instrument and
the signature is binding on the represented person under ORS 73.0402.
[(2) A signature may be made: ]
[(a) Manually or by means of a device or machine; and ]
[(b) By the use  of any name, including a trade or assumed name, or by a word, mark or symbol
executed or adopted by a person with present intention to authenticate a writing. ]
SECTION 25.  ORS 73.0604 is amended to read:
73.0604. (1) A person entitled to enforce an instrument, with or  without consideration, may dis-
charge the obligation of a party to pay the instrument:
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 13
(a) By an intentional  voluntary act, such as surrender of the instrument to the party, de-
struction, mutilation, or cancellation of the instrument, cancellation or striking out of  the party’s
signature, or the addition of words to the instrument indicating discharge; or
(b) By agreeing not to  sue or otherwise renouncing rights against the party by a signed
[writing] record.
(2) The obligation of  a party to pay a check is not discharged solely by destruction of the
check in connection with a process in which  information is extracted from the check and an
image of the check is made and, subsequently,  the information and image are transmitted
for payment.
[(2)] (3) Cancellation or striking out of an indorsement pursuant to subsection (1) of this section
does not affect the status and rights of a party derived from the indorsement.
AMENDMENTS FROM UCC ARTICLE 4A
TO ORS CHAPTER 74A
SECTION 26.  ORS 74A.1030 is amended to read:
74A.1030. (1) As used in this chapter:
(a) “Beneficiary” means the person to be paid by the beneficiary’s bank.
(b) “Beneficiary’s bank” means the bank identified  in a payment order in which an account for
the beneficiary is to be credited pursuant  to the order or which otherwise is to make payment to
the beneficiary if the order does not provide for payment to an account.
(c) “Payment  order” means an instruction of a sender to a receiving bank, transmitted orally[ ,
electronically or in writing ] or in a record , to pay,  or to cause another bank to pay, a fixed or de-
terminable amount of money to a beneficiary if:
(A) The instruction does not state a condition for payment to the beneficiary other  than time
of payment;
(B) The receiving bank is to be reimbursed by debiting an  account of, or otherwise receiving
payment from, the sender; and
(C) The instruction is transmitted by the sender directly to the receiving bank or to an  agent,
funds-transfer system or communication system for transmittal to the receiving bank.
(d) “Receiving bank” means the bank to which the sender’s instruction is addressed.
(e) “Sender” means the person giving the instruction to the receiving bank.
(2) If an instruction complying with subsection (1)(c) of this  section is to make more than one
payment to a beneficiary, the instruction is a separate payment order with respect to  each payment.
(3) A payment order is issued when it is sent to the receiving bank.
SECTION 27.
 ORS 74A.2010 is amended to read:
74A.2010. (1) “Security procedure” means a procedure established  by agreement of a customer
and a receiving bank for the purpose of:
(a) Verifying that a payment order or communication amending or canceling a payment  order
is that of the customer; or
(b) Detecting error in the transmission or the content of the payment order or communication.
(2) A security procedure  may impose an obligation  on the receiving bank or the customer
and may require the  use of algorithms or other codes, identifying words , [ or] numbers,  symbols,
sounds, biometrics,  encryption, callback procedures or similar security devices. Comparison of a
signature on a payment order  or communication with an authorized specimen signature of the cus-
tomer or requiring a  payment order to be sent from a known email address, Internet Protocol
address or telephone number  is not by itself a security procedure.
SECTION 28.
 ORS 74A.2020 is amended to read:
74A.2020. (1) A payment  order received by the receiving bank is the authorized order of the
person identified as sender if that person authorized the order or is otherwise bound by  it under the
law of agency.
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 14
(2) If a bank and its customer have agreed that the authenticity of payment orders issued to  the
bank in the  name of the customer as sender will be verified pursuant to a security procedure, a
payment order  received by the receiving bank is effective as the order of the customer, whether or
not authorized, if:
(a) The security procedure is  a commercially reasonable method of providing security against
unauthorized payment orders; and
(b) The  bank proves that it accepted the payment order in good faith and in compliance with
the bank’s obligations under  the security procedure and any [ written] agreement or instruction
of the customer , evidenced by a record,  restricting acceptance of payment  orders issued in the
name of the customer.
(3) The bank is not required to follow an instruction that violates [ a written] an agreement with
the customer , evidenced by a record,  or notice of which is not received at a time and in a manner
affording the bank a reasonable opportunity to act on it before the payment order is accepted.
(4) Commercial reasonableness of a security procedure is a question  of law to be determined by
considering the wishes of the  customer expressed to the bank, the circumstances of the customer
known to the bank,  including the size, type and frequency of payment orders normally issued by the
customer to the bank, alternative security procedures offered to  the customer, and security proce-
dures in general use by customers and receiving banks similarly  situated. A security procedure is
deemed to be commercially reasonable if:
(a) The security procedure was chosen by the customer after the bank  offered, and the customer
refused, a security procedure that was commercially reasonable for that customer; and
(b) The customer expressly agreed in [ writing] a record  to be bound by any payment order,
whether or not authorized,  issued in its name and accepted by the bank in compliance with  the
bank’s obligations under the security procedure chosen by the customer.
(5) The term “sender” in this chapter includes the customer in whose name a  payment order is
issued if the order is the authorized order of  the customer under subsection (1) of this section, or
it is effective as the order of the customer under subsection (2) of this section.
(6) This section applies to amendments and cancellations of payment  orders to the same extent
it applies to payment orders.
(7) Except  as provided in this section and ORS 74A.2030, rights and obligations arising under
this section or ORS 74A.2030 may not be varied by agreement.
SECTION 29.  ORS 74A.2030 is amended to read:
74A.2030. (1) If  an accepted payment order is not, under ORS 74A.2020, an authorized order of
a customer identified as sender, but is effective as  an order of the customer pursuant to ORS
74A.2020, the following rules apply:
(a) By express [ written] agreement  evidenced by a record , the receiving bank may  limit the
extent to which it is entitled to enforce or retain payment of the payment order.
(b) The receiving bank is not  entitled to enforce or retain payment of the payment order if the
customer proves that the order was not caused, directly or indirectly, by a person:
(A) Entrusted at any time with duties to act  for the customer with respect to payment orders
or the security procedure; or
(B) Who obtained access to transmitting facilities of the customer or who obtained from a source
controlled by the customer and without authority  of the receiving bank, information facilitating
breach of the security procedure, regardless of how the information  was obtained or whether the
customer was at fault.
(2) “Information” includes any access device, computer software or the like.
(3) This section applies to amendments of payment orders to the same  extent it applies to pay-
ment orders.
SECTION 30.
 ORS 74A.2070 is amended to read:
74A.2070. (1) Subject to subsection (2) of this section, if, in a payment order received by the
beneficiary’s bank, the name, bank account number, or other identification of the beneficiary refers
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 15
to a nonexistent or unidentifiable person or account, no person has rights as a beneficiary of  the
order and acceptance of the order cannot occur.
(2) If a payment order received by the beneficiary’s bank identifies  the beneficiary both by name
and by an identifying or bank account number and the name and number identify different persons,
the following rules apply:
(a) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (3) of this section, if the beneficiary’s bank  does
not know that the name and number refer to different persons, it may rely on the number as the
proper identification of  the beneficiary of the order. The beneficiary’s bank need not determine
whether the name and number refer to the same person.
(b) If the beneficiary’s bank pays the person identified by name or knows that  the name and
number identify different persons, no person has  rights as beneficiary except the person paid by the
beneficiary’s bank if that person  was entitled to receive payment from the originator of the funds
transfer. If no person has rights as beneficiary, acceptance of the order cannot occur.
(3) If a payment order described in subsection (2) of  this section is accepted, the originator’s
payment order described the beneficiary inconsistently by name and number and  the beneficiary’s
bank pays the person identified  by number as permitted by subsection (2)(a) of this section, the fol-
lowing rules apply:
(a) If the originator is a bank, the originator is obliged to pay its order; and
(b) If the originator is not a bank and proves that the person  identified by number was not en-
titled to receive payment from the  originator, the originator is not obliged to pay its order unless
the originator’s bank proves that the originator, before acceptance of the  originator’s order, had
notice that payment of a payment  order issued by the originator might be made by the beneficiary’s
bank on the basis of an identifying or bank account number even if it identifies a person different
from the named beneficiary.  Proof of notice may be made by any admissible evidence. The
originator’s bank satisfies the burden of proof if it proves that the originator,  before the payment
order was accepted, signed a [ writing] record stating the information to which the notice relates.
(4) In a case governed by  subsection (2)(a) of this section, if the beneficiary’s bank rightfully
pays the person identified by number and that person was not entitled to receive payment  from the
originator, the amount paid may be recovered from  that person to the extent allowed by the law
governing mistake and restitution as follows:
(a) If the originator is obliged to pay its payment order as stated in subsection (3) of  this sec-
tion, the originator has the right to recover.
(b) If the originator is not a bank and is not obliged  to pay its payment order, the originator’s
bank has the right to recover.
SECTION 31.
 ORS 74A.2080 is amended to read:
74A.2080. (1) This subsection applies to a payment order  identifying an intermediary bank or the
beneficiary’s bank only by an identifying number.
(a) The receiving bank may rely on the number as the proper identification of the  intermediary
or beneficiary’s bank and need not determine whether the number identifies a bank.
(b) The sender is obliged  to compensate the receiving bank for any loss and expenses incurred
by the  receiving bank as a result of its reliance on the number in executing or attempting to execute
the order.
(2) This subsection applies to a payment order identifying an intermediary bank or  the
beneficiary’s bank both  by name and an identifying number if the name and number identify different
persons.
(a) If the sender is a bank, the receiving  bank may rely on the number as the proper identifi-
cation of the  intermediary or beneficiary’s bank if the receiving bank, when it executes the sender’s
order, does not know that the name and  number identify different persons. The receiving bank need
not determine whether the name and number refer to the same person or  whether the number refers
to a bank. The sender is obliged to compensate the receiving bank  for any loss and expenses in-
curred by the receiving bank as a result of its reliance on  the number in executing or attempting
to execute the order.
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 16
(b) If the sender is not a bank and the receiving bank proves that the sender, before the payment
order was accepted, had notice that  the receiving bank might rely on the number as the proper
identification of the intermediary or beneficiary’s bank even if it identifies a  person different from
the bank identified by name, the rights and obligations of the  sender and the receiving bank are
governed by paragraph (a) of this subsection, as though the sender  were a bank. Proof of notice may
be made by any admissible evidence. The receiving bank satisfies the burden of proof if it proves
that the sender, before the payment order was accepted, signed a [ writing] record  stating the in-
formation to which the notice relates.
(c) Regardless of whether the sender  is a bank, the receiving bank may rely on the name as the
proper identification of the intermediary or beneficiary’s bank if the receiving bank, at the time it
executes the sender’s order, does not  know that the name and number identify different persons. The
receiving bank need not determine whether the name and number refer to the same person.
(d) If the receiving bank knows that the name and number identify different persons, reliance
on either the name or the number in executing the sender’s payment order  is a breach of the obli-
gation stated in ORS 74A.3020 (1)(a).
SECTION 32.
 ORS 74A.2100 is amended to read:
74A.2100. (1) A payment order is  rejected by the receiving bank by a notice of rejection trans-
mitted to the sender orally[ , electronically ] or in [ writing] a record . A notice of rejection need not
use any particular words and is sufficient if it indicates that the receiving bank is  rejecting the
order or will not execute or pay the order. Rejection is  effective when the notice is given if trans-
mission is by a means that is reasonable in the circumstances. If  notice of rejection is given by a
means that is not reasonable, rejection is effective when the notice is  received. If an agreement of
the sender and receiving bank establishes the means to be used to reject a payment order:
(a) Any means complying with the agreement is reasonable; and
(b) Any means not complying is not reasonable unless no significant delay  in receipt of the no-
tice resulted from the use of the noncomplying means.
(2) This subsection applies if  a receiving bank other than the beneficiary’s bank fails to execute
a payment order despite the existence on the  execution date of a withdrawable credit balance in
an authorized  account of the sender sufficient to cover the order. If the sender does not receive
notice of rejection of the order on the execution date and the authorized account of the sender  does
not bear interest, the bank is obliged to pay interest to the sender on the amount  of the order for
the number of days elapsing after the execution date to the earlier  of the day the order is canceled
pursuant to ORS 74A.2110 (4) or the day the sender receives notice or learns  that the order was
not executed, counting the final day of the  period as an elapsed day. If the withdrawable credit
balance during that period  falls below the amount of the order, the amount of interest is reduced
accordingly.
(3) If  a receiving bank suspends payments, all unaccepted payment orders issued to it are
deemed rejected at the time the bank suspends payments.
(4) Acceptance of a payment order  precludes a later rejection of the order. Rejection of a pay-
ment order precludes a later acceptance of the order.
SECTION 33.
 ORS 74A.2110 is amended to read:
74A.2110. (1) A communication of the  sender of a payment order canceling or amending the or-
der may be transmitted to the receiving bank orally[ , electronically ] or  in [ writing] a record . If a
security procedure is in effect between the sender and the receiving bank, the communication is  not
effective to cancel or amend the order unless the communication is verified pursuant  to the security
procedure or the bank agrees to the cancellation or amendment.
(2) Subject to subsection (1) of this section,  a communication by the sender canceling or
amending a payment order is effective to cancel or amend the order if notice of  the communication
is received at a time and in a manner affording the receiving bank a reasonable opportunity  to act
on the communication before the bank accepts the payment order.
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 17
(3) After a payment  order has been accepted, cancellation or amendment of the order is not ef-
fective unless the receiving  bank agrees or a funds-transfer system rule allows cancellation or
amendment without agreement of the bank. The following apply:
(a) With respect to a payment order accepted by a receiving bank other than  the beneficiary’s
bank, cancellation or amendment is not effective unless a conforming cancellation or  amendment of
the payment order issued by the receiving bank is also made.
(b) With respect to a payment order accepted by the beneficiary’s bank, cancellation  or amend-
ment is not effective unless  the order was issued in execution of an unauthorized payment order,
or because of a  mistake by a sender in the funds transfer which resulted in the issuance of a pay-
ment order that is a duplicate of a payment order previously issued by the sender, that orders pay-
ment to a beneficiary not entitled to receive payment from the originator or that orders payment
in an amount greater than the amount the beneficiary was entitled to receive from  the originator.
If the payment order  is canceled or amended, the beneficiary’s bank is entitled to recover from the
beneficiary any amount paid to the beneficiary to the extent allowed by the  law governing mistake
and restitution.
(4) An unaccepted payment order is canceled by operation of  law at the close of the fifth
funds-transfer business day of the receiving bank after the execution date or payment date of the
order.
(5) A canceled payment order cannot be accepted. If an accepted payment order is canceled,  the
acceptance is nullified and no person has any  right or obligation based on the acceptance. Amend-
ment of a payment  order is deemed to be cancellation of the original order at the time of amendment
and issue of a new payment order in the amended form at the same time.
(6) Unless otherwise provided in an agreement of the parties or in a funds-transfer  system rule,
if the receiving bank, after accepting a payment order, agrees to  cancellation or amendment of the
order by the  sender or is bound by a funds-transfer system rule allowing cancellation or amendment
without the bank’s agreement, the  sender, whether or not cancellation or amendment is effective,
is liable to the bank for any loss and expenses, including  reasonable attorney fees, incurred by the
bank as a result of the cancellation or amendment or attempted cancellation or amendment.
(7) A payment order  is not revoked by the death or legal incapacity of the sender unless the
receiving bank knows of the death or of an adjudication of incapacity by a  court of competent ju-
risdiction and has reasonable opportunity to act before acceptance of the order.
(8) A funds-transfer system rule is not effective to the extent it conflicts with subsection  (3)(b)
of this section.
SECTION 34.
 ORS 74A.3050 is amended to read:
74A.3050. (1) If a funds transfer is completed but execution  of a payment order by the receiving
bank in breach of ORS 74A.3020 results in delay in payment to the beneficiary, the bank  is obliged
to pay interest to either the originator or the beneficiary of the funds transfer for the period of
delay caused by the improper execution. Except as provided in subsection (3) of  this section, addi-
tional damages are not recoverable.
(2) If execution of a payment order by a receiving bank in breach of  ORS 74A.3020 results in
noncompletion of the funds transfer, failure to use an intermediary  bank designated by the origina-
tor or  issuance of a payment order that does not comply with the terms of the payment order of the
originator, the bank is liable to the originator for the expenses of  the originator in the funds
transfer and for incidental expenses and interest losses, to the extent not covered by subsection  (1)
of this section, resulting from the improper execution. Except as provided  in subsection (3) of this
section, additional damages are not recoverable.
(3) In addition to the amounts payable under  subsections (1) and (2) of this section, damages,
including consequential damages, are recoverable to the extent provided in an express [ written]
agreement of the receiving bank , evidenced by a record .
(4) If a receiving bank fails to execute a payment order it was obliged by express  agreement to
execute, the receiving bank is liable to the sender for the  expenses of the sender in the transaction
and for incidental expenses and interest losses resulting from  the failure to execute. Additional
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 18
damages, including consequential damages, are recoverable to the extent provided in an  express
[written] agreement of the receiving bank,  evidenced by a record,  but are not otherwise recovera-
ble.
(5) The court  may award reasonable attorney fees to the prevailing party in an action to recover
amounts under this section.
(6) Except as stated  in this section, the liability of a receiving bank under subsections (1) and
(2) of this section may not be varied by agreement.
AMENDMENTS FROM UCC ARTICLE 5
TO ORS CHAPTER 75
SECTION 35.  ORS 75.1040 is amended to read:
75.1040. A letter of credit, confirmation, advice, transfer, amendment or cancellation may  be is-
sued in any form that is a  signed record [ and is authenticated: ]
[(1) By a signature; or ]
[(2) In accordance with the agreement of the parties to the standard practice  referred to in ORS
75.1080 (5)].
SECTION 36.  ORS 75.1160 is amended to read:
75.1160. (1)  The liability of an issuer, nominated person or adviser for action or omission is
governed by the law of the jurisdiction chosen by an agreement in the form of  a record signed [ or
otherwise authenticated ] by the  affected parties [ in the manner provided in ORS 75.1040 ] or by a
provision in the person’s letter of credit, confirmation or other undertaking. The jurisdiction  whose
law is chosen need not bear any relation to the transaction.
(2)(a) Unless subsection (1) of this section  applies, the liability of an issuer, nominated person
or adviser for  action or omission is governed by the law of the jurisdiction in which the person is
located. The person is considered to be located at the address indicated in  the person’s undertaking.
If more than  one address is indicated, the person is considered to be located at the address from
which the person’s undertaking was issued.
(b) For the  purpose of jurisdiction, choice of law and recognition of interbranch letters of credit,
but not enforcement of a judgment, all  branches of a bank are considered separate juridical entities
and a bank is considered to be located at the place where its  relevant branch is considered to be
located under [ this] paragraph (c) of this  subsection.
(c) A  branch of a bank is considered to be located at the address indicated in the branch’s
undertaking. If more than one address  is indicated, the branch is considered to be located
at the address from which the undertaking was issued.
(3)(a) Except as provided in this subsection, the liability of an issuer,  nominated person or ad-
viser is governed by any rules of  custom or practice, such as the Uniform Customs and Practice for
Documentary Credits, to which  the letter of credit, confirmation or other undertaking is expressly
made subject.
(b) Except to the extent of any conflict with the nonvariable provisions specified  in ORS 75.1030
(3), rules of custom or practice govern if:
(A) This  chapter would govern the liability of an issuer, nominated person or adviser under
subsection (1) or (2) of this section;
(B) The relevant undertaking incorporates rules of custom or practice; and
(C) There is conflict between this chapter and those rules as applied to that undertaking.
(4) If there is  conflict between this chapter and ORS chapters 73, 74, 74A or 79, this chapter
governs.
(5) The forum  for settling disputes arising out of an undertaking under this chapter may be
chosen in the manner and  with the binding effect that governing law may be chosen in accordance
with subsection (1) of this section.
AMENDMENTS FROM UCC ARTICLE 7
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 19
TO ORS CHAPTER 77
SECTION 37.  ORS 77.1020 is amended to read:
77.1020. (1) In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
(a) “Bailee” means a person that by  a warehouse receipt, bill of lading or other document of
title acknowledges possession of goods and contracts to deliver them.
(b) “Carrier” means a person that issues a bill of lading.
(c) “Consignee” means a person named in  a bill of lading to which or to whose order the bill
promises delivery.
(d) “Consignor” means a person named in a bill  of lading as the person from which the goods
have been received for shipment.
(e) “Delivery order” means a record that  contains an order to deliver goods directed to a
warehouse, carrier or other  person that in the ordinary course of business issues warehouse receipts
or bills of lading.
(f) “Goods” means all things that are treated as movable for the purposes of a contract  for
storage or transportation.
(g) “Issuer” means a bailee that issues a document of title or, in the  case of an unaccepted de-
livery order, the person that orders the possessor of goods  to deliver. The term includes a person
for which an agent or employee purports to act in issuing a document if the  agent or employee has
real or apparent authority to issue documents, even if the  issuer did not receive any goods, the
goods were misdescribed, or  in any other respect the agent or employee violated the issuer’s in-
structions.
(h) “Person entitled under the document” means the holder, in the case of a negotiable document
of title, or the person to which delivery of the goods is to be made by  the terms of, or pursuant to
instructions in a record under, a nonnegotiable document of title.
[(i) “Record”  means information that is inscribed on a tangible medium or that is stored in an
electronic or other medium and is retrievable in perceivable form. ]
[(j) “Sign” means, with present intent to authenticate or adopt a record: ]
[(A) To execute or adopt a tangible symbol; or ]
[(B) To attach to or logically associate with the record an electronic sound, symbol or process. ]
[(k)] (i) “Shipper” means a person that enters into a contract of transportation with a carrier.
[(L)] (j)  “Warehouse” means a person engaged in the business of storing goods for hire.
(2) Definitions in other chapters applying to this chapter and  the sections in which they appear
are:
(a) “Contract for sale,” as defined in ORS 72.1060.
(b) “Lessee in the ordinary course of business,” as defined in ORS 72A.1030.
(c) “Receipt” of goods, as defined in ORS 72.1030.
(3) In addition, ORS chapter 71 contains general definitions and principles of  construction and
interpretation applicable throughout this chapter.
SECTION 38.
 ORS 77.1060 is amended to read:
77.1060. (1) A person has control of an electronic document of title if a system  employed for
evidencing the transfer of interests in the electronic document reliably establishes that  person as
the person to which the electronic document was issued or transferred.
(2) A system satisfies subsection (1) of this section, and a person [ is deemed to have ] has control
of an electronic document of title, if  the document is created, stored and [ assigned] transferred  in
[such] a manner that:
(a) A single authoritative copy of the document  exists which is unique, identifiable and, except
as otherwise provided in paragraphs (d), (e) and (f) of this subsection, unalterable;
(b) The authoritative copy identifies the person asserting control as:
(A) The person to which the document was issued; or
(B) If the authoritative copy indicates that the document has been transferred,  the person to
which the document was most recently transferred;
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 20
(c) The authoritative copy is communicated to and maintained  by the person asserting control
or a designated custodian;
(d) Copies or amendments  that add or change an identified [ assignee] transferee  of the author-
itative copy can be made only with the consent of the person asserting control;
(e) Each copy of the authoritative copy and any copy of a copy  is readily identifiable as a copy
that is not the authoritative copy; and
(f) Any amendment  of the authoritative copy is readily identifiable as authorized or unauthor-
ized.
(3) A  system satisfies subsection (1) of this section, and a person has control of an elec-
tronic document of  title, if an authoritative electronic copy of the document, a record at-
tached to or logically associated with the electronic copy or a system in which the  electronic
copy is recorded:
(a) Enables the person readily to identify each electronic copy as either an  authoritative
copy or a nonauthoritative copy;
(b) Enables the person readily to identify itself in any  way, including by name, identifying
number, cryptographic key, office or account number, as  the person to which each authori-
tative electronic copy was issued or transferred; and
(c) Gives the person exclusive power, subject to subsection (4) of this section, to:
(A) Prevent others from adding or changing the  person to which each authoritative
electronic copy has been issued or transferred; and
(B) Transfer control of each authoritative electronic copy.
(4) Subject to subsection (5) of this section, a power is exclusive under  subsection (3)(c)
of this section even if:
(a) The authoritative electronic copy, a record attached to or logically associated with
the authoritative electronic copy, or a system  in which the authoritative electronic copy is
recorded limits the use of the document of title or has a protocol  that is programmed to
cause a change, including a transfer or loss of control; or
(b) The power is shared with another person.
(5) A power of a person is  not shared with another person under subsection (4)(b) of this
section and the person’s power is not exclusive if:
(a) The person can exercise the power  only if the power also is exercised by the other
person; and
(b) The other person:
(A) Can exercise the power without exercise of the power by the person; or
(B) Is the transferor to the person of an interest in the document of title.
(6) If a person has the powers specified in subsection (3)(c)  of this section, the powers
are presumed to be exclusive.
(7) A person has control of an electronic document of title if another  person, other than
the transferor to the person of an interest in the document:
(a) Has control of the  document and acknowledges that it has control on behalf of the
person; or
(b) Obtains control of the document after having acknowledged that it will obtain  control
of the document on behalf of the person.
(8) A person  that has control under this section is not required to acknowledge that it
has control on behalf of another person.
(9) If a person acknowledges that it has or will obtain control on behalf of another  per-
son, unless the person otherwise agrees or law other than this chapter or ORS chapter  79
otherwise provides, the person does not owe any  duty to the other person and is not required
to confirm the acknowledgment to any other person.
AMENDMENTS FROM UCC ARTICLE 8
TO ORS CHAPTER 78
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 21
SECTION 39.  ORS 78.1020 is amended to read:
78.1020. (1) In this chapter:
(a) “Adverse claim” means a claim  in which a claimant who has a property interest in a finan-
cial asset asserts that it is a violation of  the rights of the claimant for another person to hold,
transfer or deal with the financial asset.
(b) “Bearer form,” as applied to a certificated  security, means a form in which the security is
payable to the  bearer of the security certificate according to its terms but not by reason of an in-
dorsement.
(c) “Broker” means a person defined as a broker or dealer under the federal  securities laws, but
does not exclude a bank acting in that capacity.
(d) “Certificated security” means a security that is represented by a certificate.
(e) “Clearing corporation” means:
(A) A person that is registered as a clearing agency under the federal securities laws;
(B) A federal reserve bank; or
(C) Any other person that provides clearance  or settlement services with respect to financial
assets that would require it to register as a clearing agency  under the federal securities laws but
for an exclusion or exemption from the registration requirement, if its activities as a clearing cor-
poration, including promulgation of rules, are subject to regulation by a  federal or state govern-
mental authority.
(f) “Communicate” means to:
(A) Send a signed [ writing] record; or
(B) Transmit information by any mechanism agreed upon by the persons transmitting and  re-
ceiving the information.
(g) “Entitlement holder” means a person identified in the records of a securities  intermediary
as the person having a security entitlement against the securities intermediary. If a person acquires
a security entitlement by virtue of ORS 78.5010 (2)(b) or (c), that person is the entitlement holder.
(h) “Entitlement order” means a notification communicated to a securities intermediary direct-
ing transfer or redemption  of a financial asset to which the entitlement holder has a security
entitlement.
(i)(A) “Financial asset,” except as otherwise provided in ORS 78.1030, means:
(i) A security;
(ii) An obligation of a person or a share, participation, or other interest in  a person or in
property or an enterprise of a  person, that is, or is of a type, dealt in or traded on financial markets,
or that is recognized in any area in which it is issued or dealt in as a medium for investment; or
(iii) Any property that is held by a securities intermediary  for another person in a securities
account if the securities intermediary has expressly agreed with the other person that  the property
is to be treated as a financial asset under this chapter.
(B) As context requires, “financial asset” means either the interest itself or the means by which
a person’s claim to it is evidenced, including  a certificated or uncertificated security, a security
certificate or a security entitlement.
(j) “Indorsement” means a signature that alone or  accompanied by other words is made on a
security certificate in registered form or on  a separate document for the purpose of assigning,
transferring or redeeming the security or granting the power to assign, transfer or redeem it.
(k) “Instruction” means a  notification communicated to the issuer of an uncertificated security
that directs that the transfer of the security be registered or that the security be redeemed.
(L) “Registered form,” as applied to a certificated security, means a form in which:
(A) The security certificate specifies a person entitled to the security; and
(B) A transfer of the security may be registered upon books maintained  for that purpose by or
on behalf of the issuer, or the security certificate so states.
(m) “Securities intermediary” means:
(A) A clearing corporation; or
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 22
(B) A person, including a bank or broker, that in the  ordinary course of business maintains se-
curities accounts for others and is acting in that capacity.
(n) “Security,” except as otherwise provided in ORS 78.1030, means an obligation  of an issuer
or a share, participation or other interest in an issuer or in property or an enterprise of an issuer:
(A) That is represented by a security certificate in bearer  or registered form, or the transfer
of which may be registered upon books maintained for that purpose by or on behalf of the issuer;
(B) That is one of a class or series or by its terms is divisible into a  class or series of shares,
participations, interests or obligations; and
(C)(i) That is, or  is of a type, dealt in or traded on securities exchanges or securities markets;
or
(ii) That is a medium for investment  and by its terms expressly provides that it is a security
governed by this chapter.
(o) “Security certificate” means a certificate representing a security.
(p) “Security entitlement” means the rights and property interest of an  entitlement holder with
respect to a financial asset specified in ORS 78.5010 to 78.5110.
(q) “Uncertificated security” means a security that is not represented by a certificate.
(2) [Other] The following definitions [ applying to] in this chapter and [ the sections in which they
appear are ] other chapters apply to this chapter :
(a) “Appropriate person” as defined in ORS 78.1070.
(b) “Control” as defined in ORS 78.1060.
(c) “Controllable account” as defined in ORS 79.0102.
(d) “Controllable electronic record” as defined in section 95 of this 2025 Act.
(e) “Controllable payment intangible” as defined in ORS 79.0102.
[(c)] (f)  “Delivery” as defined in ORS 78.3010.
[(d)] (g)  “Investment company security” as defined in ORS 78.1030.
[(e)] (h)  “Issuer” as defined in ORS 78.2010.
[(f)] (i) “Overissue” as defined in ORS 78.2100.
[(g)] (j)  “Protected purchaser” as defined in ORS 78.3030.
[(h)] (k)  “Securities account” as defined in ORS 78.5010.
(3) In addition,  ORS chapter 71 contains general definitions and principles of construction and
interpretation applicable throughout this chapter.
(4) The characterization of a person, business or transaction  for purposes of this chapter does
not determine the characterization of  the person, business or transaction for purposes of any other
law, regulation or rule.
SECTION 40.
 ORS 78.1030 is amended to read:
78.1030. (1) A share or similar equity interest issued by a  corporation, business trust, joint stock
company or similar entity is a security.
(2) An “investment company security” is a security. “Investment company security”  means a
share or similar equity interest  issued by an entity that is registered as an investment company
under the federal investment  company laws, an interest in a unit investment trust that is so regis-
tered or a face-amount certificate issued by a  face-amount certificate company that is so registered.
“Investment company security” does not include an insurance policy, endowment  policy or annuity
contract issued by an insurance company.
(3) An interest in a partnership  or limited liability company is not a security unless it is dealt
in or traded on securities exchanges or in  securities markets, its terms expressly provide that it is
a security  governed by this chapter or it is an investment company security. However, an interest
in a partnership or limited liability company  is a financial asset if it is held in a securities account.
(4) A writing that is a security  certificate is governed by this chapter and not by ORS chapter
73, even though  it also meets the requirements of that chapter. However, a negotiable instrument
governed by ORS chapter 73 is a financial asset if it is held in a securities account.
(5) An option or similar obligation issued by a clearing corporation to its  participants is not a
security, but is a financial asset.
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 23
(6) A commodity contract, as defined in ORS 79.0102, is not a security or a financial asset.
(7) A document of title is not a financial asset unless ORS 78.1020 (1)(i)(A)(iii) applies.
(8) A  controllable account, controllable electronic record or controllable payment intan-
gible is not a financial asset unless ORS 78.1020 (1)(i)(A)(iii) applies.
SECTION 41.
 ORS 78.1060 is amended to read:
78.1060. (1) A purchaser has control of a  certificated security in bearer form if the certificated
security is delivered to the purchaser.
(2) A purchaser has control of a certificated security in registered form if the certificated se-
curity is delivered to the purchaser, and:
(a) The certificate is indorsed to the purchaser or in blank by an effective indorsement; or
(b) The certificate is registered in the name of the purchaser, upon  original issue or registration
of transfer by the issuer.
(3) A purchaser has control of an uncertificated security if:
(a) The uncertificated security is delivered to the purchaser; or
(b) The issuer  has agreed to comply with instructions originated by the purchaser without fur-
ther consent by the registered owner.
(4) A purchaser has control of a security entitlement if:
(a) The purchaser becomes the entitlement holder;
(b) The securities intermediary has agreed to  comply with entitlement orders originated by the
purchaser without further consent by the entitlement holder; or
(c) Another person [ has control of the security  entitlement on behalf of the purchaser or, having
previously acquired control of  the security entitlement, acknowledges that the person has control on
behalf of the purchaser ], other than  the transferor to the purchaser of an interest in the se-
curity entitlement:
(A) Has control of the security entitlement and acknowledges that it has control  on be-
half of the purchaser; or
(B) Obtains  control of the security entitlement after having acknowledged that it will
obtain control of the security entitlement on behalf of the purchaser .
(5) If an interest in a security entitlement is granted by  the entitlement holder to the
entitlement holder’s own securities intermediary, the securities intermediary has control.
(6) A purchaser who has  satisfied the requirements of subsection (3) or (4) of this section has
control, even if the registered owner in the case of  subsection (3) of this section, or the entitlement
holder in the case of subsection (4) of this section,  retains the right to make substitutions for the
uncertificated security or security entitlement, to originate instructions or entitlement orders to  the
issuer or securities intermediary or otherwise to deal with the uncertificated  security or security
entitlement.
(7) An issuer or a securities intermediary may  not enter into an agreement of the kind described
in subsection  (3)(b) or (4)(b) of this section without the consent of the registered owner or
entitlement holder, but an issuer or a securities intermediary  is not required to enter into such an
agreement even  though the registered owner or entitlement holder so directs. An issuer or securities
intermediary that has  entered into such an agreement is not required to confirm the existence of
the agreement to another party unless requested to do so by the  registered owner or entitlement
holder.
(8) A person that has control under this section is not required to acknowledge  that it
has control on behalf of a purchaser.
(9) If  a person acknowledges that it has or will obtain control on behalf of a purchaser,
unless the  person otherwise agrees or law other than this chapter or ORS chapter 79 oth-
erwise provides, the person does not  owe any duty to the purchaser and is not required to
confirm the acknowledgment to any other person.
SECTION 42.
 ORS 78.1100 is amended to read:
78.1100. (1) The local law of  the issuer’s jurisdiction, as defined in subsection (4) of this section,
governs:
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 24
(a) The validity of a security;
(b) The rights and duties of the issuer with respect to registration of transfer;
(c) The effectiveness of registration of transfer by the issuer;
(d) Whether the issuer owes any duties to an adverse claimant to a security; and
(e) Whether an adverse claim can be asserted against a person to whom transfer of a  certif-
icated  or  uncertificated security is registered or a person who obtains control of an uncertificated
security.
(2) The local  law of the securities intermediary’s jurisdiction, as specified in subsection (5) of
this section, governs:
(a) Acquisition of a security entitlement from the securities intermediary;
(b) The rights and duties of the  securities intermediary and entitlement holder arising out of a
security  entitlement;
(c) Whether the securities intermediary  owes any duties to an adverse claimant to a security
entitlement; and
(d) Whether an adverse claim can be asserted against a person who  acquires a security
entitlement from the securities intermediary  or a person who purchases a security entitlement or
interest therein from an entitlement holder.
(3) The local law of the jurisdiction in which a security certificate is located at the time  of de-
livery governs whether  an adverse claim can be asserted against a person to whom the security
certificate is delivered.
(4) “Issuer’s jurisdiction” means the jurisdiction  under which the issuer of the security is or-
ganized or, if permitted by the law of that jurisdiction, the law  of another jurisdiction specified by
the issuer. An issuer organized under the law of this state may  specify the law of another jurisdic-
tion as the law governing the matters specified in subsection (1)(b) to (e) of this section.
(5) The following rules determine a securities intermediary’s  jurisdiction for purposes of this
section:
(a) If an agreement between the  securities intermediary and its entitlement holder governing the
securities account expressly  provides that a particular jurisdiction is the securities intermediary’s
jurisdiction for purposes of ORS 78.1010 to 78.1160, this chapter or  ORS chapter 79, that jurisdiction
is the securities intermediary’s jurisdiction.
(b) If paragraph (a) of this subsection does not apply and an agreement between the securities
intermediary and its entitlement holder governing the securities account expressly provides  that the
agreement is governed by the law of a particular jurisdiction,  that jurisdiction is the securities
intermediary’s jurisdiction.
(c) If neither paragraph  (a) nor (b) of this subsection applies and an agreement between the se-
curities intermediary and its entitlement holder  governing the securities account expressly provides
that the securities account is maintained at  an office in a particular jurisdiction, that jurisdiction
is the securities intermediary’s jurisdiction.
(d) If paragraphs (a)  to (c) of this subsection do not apply, the securities intermediary’s juris-
diction is the jurisdiction in which the office identified in an account  statement as the office serving
the entitlement holder’s account is located.
(e) If paragraphs (a) to (d) of this subsection do not apply, the  securities intermediary’s juris-
diction is the jurisdiction in which the chief executive office of the securities intermediary  is lo-
cated.
(6) A securities intermediary’s jurisdiction is not determined by the physical location  of certif-
icates representing financial assets, by the jurisdiction in which is  organized the issuer of the fi-
nancial asset for which an entitlement holder has  a security entitlement or by the location of
facilities for data processing or other record keeping concerning the account.
(7) The local law of the issuer’s jurisdiction or the securities  intermediary’s jurisdiction
governs a matter  or transaction specified in subsection (1) or (2) of this section even if the
matter or transaction does not bear any relation to the jurisdiction.
SECTION 43.
 ORS 78.3030 is amended to read:
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 25
78.3030. (1) “Protected purchaser” means  a purchaser of a certificated or uncertificated security,
or of an interest therein, who:
(a) Gives value;
(b) Does not have notice of any adverse claim to the security; and
(c) Obtains control of the certificated or uncertificated security.
(2) [ In addition  to acquiring the rights of a purchaser, ] A protected purchaser [ also] acquires its
interest in the security free of any adverse claim.
AMENDMENTS FROM UCC ARTICLE 9
TO ORS CHAPTER 79
SECTION 44.
 ORS 79.0102 is amended to read:
79.0102. (1) As used in this chapter:
(a) “Accession” means goods that are physically united with other  goods in such a manner that
the identity of the original goods is not lost.
(b) “Account,” except as used in “account for ,”  “account  statement,” “account to,” “com-
modity account,” as  defined in paragraph (o) of this subsection, “customer’s account,” “de-
posit account,” as defined in paragraph  (ff) of this subsection, “on account of” and
“statement of account” :
(A) Means a right to payment of a monetary obligation, whether or not  earned by performance:
(i) For property that has been or is to be sold, leased, licensed, assigned, or otherwise disposed
of;
(ii) For services rendered or to be rendered;
(iii) For a policy of insurance issued or to be issued;
(iv) For a secondary obligation incurred or to be incurred;
(v) For energy provided or to be provided;
(vi) For the use or hire of a vessel under a charter or other contract;
(vii) Arising out of the use of a credit or charge card or information contained on or for use
with the card; or
(viii) As winnings in a lottery or other game of chance operated or sponsored by  a state, gov-
ernmental unit  of a state, or person licensed or authorized to operate the game by a state or gov-
ernmental unit of  a state. The term includes  controllable accounts and  health-care-insurance
receivables.
(B) Does not include:
(i) [ Rights to payment evidenced by chattel paper or an instrument ] Chattel paper;
(ii) Commercial tort claims;
(iii) Deposit accounts;
(iv) Investment property;
(v) Letter-of-credit rights or letters of credit; [ or]
(vi) Rights to payment  for money or funds advanced or sold, other than rights arising out of the
use of a credit or charge card or information contained on or for use with the card[ .]; or
(vii) Rights to payment evidenced by an instrument.
(c)(A) “Account debtor” means a person obligated on an account, chattel paper or  general in-
tangible.
(B) The term does not  include persons obligated to pay a negotiable instrument, even if the
negotiable instrument [ constitutes part of ] evidences chattel paper.
(d) “Accounting,” except as used in “accounting for,” means a record:
(A) [ Authenticated] Signed by a secured party;
(B) Indicating  the aggregate unpaid secured obligations as of a date not more than 35 days
earlier or 35 days later than the date of the record; and
(C) Identifying the components of the obligations in reasonable detail.
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 26
(e) “Agricultural lien” means an interest, other than a security interest or  a lien created under
ORS 87.226, 87.228, 87.700 to 87.736 or 87.750 to 87.777, in farm products:
(A) Which secures payment or performance of an obligation for:
(i) Goods or services furnished in connection with a debtor’s farming operation; or
(ii) Rent on real property leased by a debtor in connection with its farming operation;
(B) Which is created by statute in favor of a person that:
(i) In the ordinary course of its business furnished goods or services to  a debtor in connection
with a debtor’s farming operation; or
(ii) Leased real property to a debtor in connection with the debtor’s farming operation; and
(C) Whose effectiveness does not depend on the person’s possession of the personal property.
(f) “As-extracted collateral” means:
(A) Oil, gas or other minerals that are subject to a security interest that:
(i) Is created by a debtor having an interest in the minerals before extraction; and
(ii) Attaches to the minerals as extracted; or
(B) Accounts arising out of the sale at the wellhead or minehead of oil,  gas or other minerals
in which the debtor had an interest before extraction.
[(g) “Authenticate” means: ]
[(A) To sign; or ]
[(B) With present intent to adopt or accept a  record, to attach to or logically associate with the
record an electronic sound, symbol or process. ]
(g) “Assignee,” except as  used in “assignee for the benefit of creditors,” means a person:
(A) In whose favor a security interest that secures an  obligation is created or provided
for under a security agreement, whether or not the obligation is outstanding; or
(B) To which an account, chattel paper, payment intangible or  promissory note has been
sold. The term includes a person to which a security interest has been transferred  by a se-
cured party.
(h) “Assignor” means a person that:
(A) Under a  security agreement creates or provides for a security interest that secures
an obligation; or
(B) Sells an account, chattel paper, payment intangible or promissory note. The term
includes a secured party that has transferred a security interest to another person.
[(h)] (i) “Bank” means an organization that is engaged in the business of banking. The  term in-
cludes savings banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions and trust companies.
[(i)] (j)  “Cash proceeds” means proceeds that are money, checks, deposit accounts or the like.
[(j)] (k) “Certificate of title” means a certificate of  title with respect to which a statute provides
for the  security interest in question to be indicated on the certificate as a condition or result of the
security  interest’s  obtaining priority over the rights of a lien creditor with respect to the collateral.
“Certificate of title”  includes another record maintained as an alternative to the certificate of title
by the governmental unit that issues certificates of title  if a statute permits the security interest in
question to be indicated on the record as a condition or result  of the security interest’s obtaining
priority over the rights of the lien creditor with respect to the collateral.
[(k)(A) ] (L)(A)  “Chattel paper” means : [a record or records that evidence both a monetary  obli-
gation and a security interest in specific goods, a security interest in specific goods and software used
in the goods, a security interest in specific goods and license of software used in the goods,  a lease of
specific goods, or a lease of specific goods and  license of software used in the goods. In this paragraph,
“monetary obligation” means a monetary obligation secured by the goods or  owed under a lease of the
goods and includes a monetary obligation with respect to software used in the goods. ]
(i) A right to payment of a monetary obligation secured by specific goods, if the right  to
payment and security agreement are evidenced by a record; or
(ii) A right  to payment of a monetary obligation owed by a lessee under a lease agree-
ment with respect to specific goods and a monetary obligation owed by the  lessee in con-
nection with the transaction giving rise to the lease, if:
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 27
(I) The right to payment and lease agreement are evidenced by a record; and
(II) The predominant purpose of the transaction giving rise to the  lease was to give the
lessee the right to possession and use of the goods. The term does not include  a right to
payment arising out of a charter or other contract  involving the use or hire of a vessel or
a right to payment arising out of the use of a credit or charge card  or information contained
on or for use with the card.
(B) The term does not  include[ :] a right to payment arising out of a charter or other con-
tract involving the use or hire of a vessel or a right to payment arising out of  the use of a
credit or charge card or information contained on or for use with the card.
[(i) Charters or other contracts involving the use or hire of a vessel; or ]
[(ii) Records that evidence a right to payment arising out of the  use of a credit or charge card or
information contained on or for use with the card. If a transaction is evidenced by records  that include
an instrument or series of instruments, the group of records taken together constitutes chattel paper. ]
[(L)] (m)  “Collateral” means the property subject to a security interest or agricultural lien. The
term includes:
(A) Proceeds to which a security interest attaches;
(B) Accounts, chattel paper, payment intangibles and promissory  notes that have been sold; and
(C) Goods that are the subject of a consignment.
[(m)] (n)  “Commercial tort claim” means a claim arising in tort with respect to which:
(A) The claimant is an organization; or
(B) The claimant is an individual and the claim:
(i) Arose in the course of the claimant’s business or profession; and
(ii) Does not include damages arising out of personal injury to or the death of an individual.
[(n)] (o)  “Commodity account” means an account maintained by a commodity intermediary  in
which a commodity contract is carried for a commodity customer.
[(o)] (p) “Commodity contract” means a commodity  futures contract, an option on a commodity
futures contract, a commodity option or another contract if the contract or option is:
(A) Traded  on or subject to the rules of a board of trade that has been designated as a contract
market for such a contract pursuant to federal commodities laws; or
(B) Traded on a  foreign commodity board of trade, exchange, or market, and is carried on the
books of a commodity intermediary for a commodity customer.
[(p)] (q)  “Commodity customer” means a person for which  a commodity intermediary carries a
commodity contract on its books.
[(q)] (r)  “Commodity intermediary” means a person that:
(A) Is registered as a futures commission merchant under federal commodities law; or
(B) In the  ordinary course of its business provides clearance or settlement services for a board
of trade that has been designated as a contract market pursuant to federal commodities law.
[(r)] (s)  “Communicate” means:
(A) To send a written or other tangible record;
(B) To transmit a record by any means agreed upon  by the persons sending and receiving the
record; or
(C) In the case of transmission of a record to  or by a filing office, to transmit a record by any
means prescribed by filing-office rule.
[(s)] (t)  “Consignee” means a merchant to which goods are delivered in a consignment.
[(t)] (u)  “Consignment” means a transaction, regardless of its form, in which  a person delivers
goods to a merchant for the purpose of sale and:
(A) The merchant:
(i) Deals in goods of that kind under a name other than the  name of the person making delivery;
(ii) Is not an auctioneer; and
(iii) Is not generally known by its creditors to be substantially engaged in selling the  goods of
others;
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 28
(B) With respect to each delivery, the aggregate value  of the goods is $1,000 or more at the time
of delivery;
(C) The goods are not consumer goods immediately before delivery; and
(D) The transaction does not create a security interest that secures an obligation.
[(u)] (v)  “Consignor” means a person that delivers goods to a consignee in a consignment.
[(v)] (w) “Consumer debtor” means a debtor in a consumer transaction.
[(w)] (x)  “Consumer goods” means goods that are  used or bought for use primarily for personal,
family or household purposes.
[(x)] (y)  “Consumer-goods transaction” means a consumer transaction in which:
(A) An individual incurs an obligation  primarily for personal, family or household purposes; and
(B) A security interest in consumer goods secures the obligation.
[(y)] (z)  “Consumer obligor” means  an obligor who is an individual and who incurred the obli-
gation as part of a transaction entered into primarily for personal, family or household purposes.
[(z)(A) ] (aa)(A)  “Consumer transaction” means a transaction in which:
(i) An individual incurs an obligation primarily for personal, family or household purposes;
(ii) A security interest secures the obligation; and
(iii) The collateral is held or acquired primarily for personal, family or household purposes.
(B) The term includes consumer-goods transactions.
[(aa)] (bb) “Continuation statement” means an amendment of a financing statement which:
(A) Identifies, by its file number, the initial financing statement to which it relates; and
(B) Indicates that it is a continuation statement for, or that it is filed to continue  the effec-
tiveness of, the identified financing statement.
(cc) “Controllable account”  means an account evidenced by a controllable electronic re-
cord that provides that the  account debtor undertakes to pay the person that has control
under section 98 of this 2025 Act of the controllable electronic record.
(dd) “Controllable payment intangible” means a payment intangible evidenced  by a con-
trollable electronic record that provides that the account  debtor undertakes to pay the per-
son that has control under section 98 of this 2025 Act of the controllable electronic record.
[(bb)] (ee)  “Debtor” means:
(A) A person having an interest, other than a security interest or other lien, in the collateral,
whether or not the person is an obligor;
(B) A seller of accounts, chattel paper, payment intangibles or promissory notes; or
(C) A consignee.
[(cc)(A) ] (ff)(A)  “Deposit  account” means a demand, time, savings, passbook or similar account
maintained with a bank.
(B) The term does not include investment property or accounts evidenced by an instrument.
[(dd)] (gg)  “Document” means  a document of title or a receipt of the type described in ORS
77.2010 (2).
[(ee) “Electronic chattel paper” means chattel paper evidenced by a record or records  consisting of
information stored in an electronic medium. ]
(hh) “Electronic money” means money in an electronic form.
[(ff)] (ii) “Encumbrance” means a right, other than an ownership interest, in real property.  The
term includes mortgages and other liens on real property.
[(gg)] (jj) “Equipment” means goods other than inventory, farm products or consumer goods.
[(hh)] (kk)  “Farm products” means goods, other than standing timber, with respect to which the
debtor is engaged in a farming operation and which are:
(A) Crops grown, growing, or to be grown, including:
(i) Crops produced on trees, vines and bushes; and
(ii) Aquatic goods produced in aquacultural operations;
(B) Livestock, born or unborn, including aquatic goods produced in aquacultural operations;
(C) Supplies used or produced in a farming operation; or
(D) Products of crops or livestock in their unmanufactured states.
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 29
[(ii)] (LL)  “Farming operation” means raising, cultivating, propagating,  fattening, grazing or any
other farming, livestock or aquacultural operation.
[(jj)] (mm)  “File number” means the number assigned to an initial financing statement pursuant
to ORS 79.0519 (1).
[(kk)] (nn)  “Filing office”  means an office designated in ORS 79.0501 as the place to file a fi-
nancing statement.
[(LL)] (oo)  “Filing-office rule” means a rule adopted pursuant to ORS 79.0526.
[(mm)] (pp) “Financing statement” means a record  or records composed of an initial financing
statement and any filed record relating to the initial financing statement.
[(nn)] (qq) “Fixture filing” means the filing of a financing statement covering goods that are  or
are to become fixtures and satisfying ORS 79.0502 (1)  and (2). The term includes the filing of a fi-
nancing statement covering goods of a transmitting utility which are or are to become fixtures.
[(oo)(A) ] (rr)(A)  “Fixtures” means goods that have become  so related to particular real property
that an interest in them arises under real property law.
(B) The term does not include  portable irrigation equipment including movable pipe, pumps,
electrical pump panels, pump columns, electrical wire, wheel lines, center pivots and handlines.
(C) The term includes domestic pumps, domestic pump wire, domestic pump panels,  domestic
pump columns and buried irrigation equipment including  buried pipe, buried electrical wire and all
buried well casings.
[(pp)] (ss)  “General intangible” means any personal  property, including things in action, other
than accounts, chattel paper, commercial  tort claims, deposit accounts, documents, goods, instru-
ments, investment  property, letter-of-credit rights, letters of credit, money and oil, gas or other
minerals before extraction. The term includes  controllable electronic records,  payment intangi-
bles and software.
[(qq)(A) ] (tt)(A)  “Goods” means all things that are movable when a security interest attaches.
(B) The term includes:
(i) Fixtures;
(ii) Standing timber that is to be cut and removed under a conveyance or contract for sale;
(iii) The unborn young of animals;
(iv) Crops grown, growing or to be grown, even if the crops are produced on trees, vines  or
bushes; and
(v) Manufactured structures.
(C) The term also includes a  computer program embedded in goods and any supporting infor-
mation provided in connection with a transaction relating to the program if:
(i) The program is associated with the  goods in such a manner that it customarily is considered
part of the goods; or
(ii) By becoming the owner of the goods, a person acquires a right to use the program in con-
nection with the goods.
(D) The term does not  include a computer program embedded in goods that consist solely of the
medium in which the program is embedded. The term also does not include  accounts, chattel paper,
commercial tort claims, deposit accounts, documents, general intangibles,  instruments, investment
property, letter-of-credit rights, letters of credit, money or oil, gas or other minerals before ex-
traction.
[(rr)] (uu)  “Governmental unit” means a subdivision, agency, department, county,  parish,
municipality or other unit of the government of the United States, a  state or a foreign country. The
term includes an organization having a separate  corporate existence if the organization is eligible
to issue debt  on which interest is exempt from income taxation under the laws of the United States.
[(ss)] (vv)  “Health-care-insurance receivable” means  an interest in or claim under a policy of
insurance which is a right to payment  of a monetary obligation for health-care goods or services
provided.
[(tt)(A)] (ww)(A)  “Instrument” means a negotiable  instrument or any other writing that evi-
dences a right to  the payment of a monetary obligation, is not itself a security agreement or lease,
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 30
and is of a type that in ordinary  course of business is transferred by delivery with any necessary
indorsement or assignment.
(B) The term does not include:
(i) Investment property;
(ii) Letters of credit; [ or]
(iii) Writings that evidence a right to payment arising out of the use of a  credit or charge card
or information contained on or for use with the card[ .]; or
(iv) Writings that evidence chattel paper.
[(uu)] (xx)  “Inventory” means goods, other than farm products, which:
(A) Are leased by a person as lessor;
(B) Are held by a person for sale or lease or to be furnished under a contract of service;
(C) Are furnished by a person under a contract of service; or
(D) Consist of raw materials, work in process, or materials used or consumed in a business.
[(vv)] (yy)  “Investment property” means a security, whether certificated or uncertificated, se-
curity entitlement, securities account, commodity contract or commodity account.
[(ww)] (zz)  “Jurisdiction of organization,” with respect to a registered organization, means the
jurisdiction under whose law the organization is organized.
[(xx)(A) ] (aaa)(A)  “Letter-of-credit right” means a right to  payment or performance under a
letter of credit, whether or not the beneficiary has demanded or is at the time  entitled to demand
payment or performance.
(B) The term does not include  the right of a beneficiary to demand payment or performance
under a letter of credit.
[(yy)] (bbb) “Lien creditor” means:
(A) A creditor that has acquired a lien on the property involved by attachment,  levy or the like;
(B) An assignee for benefit of creditors from the time of assignment;
(C) A trustee in bankruptcy from the date of the filing of the petition; or
(D) A receiver in equity from the time of appointment.
[(zz) ] (ccc)  “Manufactured structure” has the meaning given that term in ORS 446.561.
[(aaa)] (ddd) “Manufactured-structure transaction” means a secured transaction:
(A) That  creates a purchase-money security interest in a manufactured structure, other than a
manufactured structure held as inventory; or
(B) In which a manufactured structure,  other than a manufactured structure held as inventory,
is the primary collateral.
(eee) “Money” has the meaning given that term in ORS 71.2010 but does not include:
(A) A deposit account; or
(B) Money in an electronic form that cannot  be subjected to control under section 47 of
this 2025 Act.
[(bbb)] (fff)  “Mortgage” means a consensual interest in  real property, including fixtures, which
secures payment or performance of an obligation.
[(ccc)] (ggg) “New debtor” means a person that becomes  bound as debtor under ORS 79.0203 (4)
by a security agreement previously entered into by another person.
[(ddd)(A)] (hhh)(A)  “New value” means:
(i) Money;
(ii) Money’s worth in property, services or new credit; or
(iii) Release by a transferee of an interest in property previously transferred to the transferee.
(B) The term does not include an obligation substituted for another obligation.
[(eee)] (iii) “Noncash proceeds” means proceeds other than cash proceeds.
[(fff)(A)] (jjj)(A)  “Obligor” means a person that, with respect to an obligation secured by  a se-
curity interest in or an agricultural lien on the collateral:
(i) Owes payment or other performance of the obligation;
(ii) Has provided property other than  the collateral to secure payment or other performance of
the obligation; or
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 31
(iii) Is otherwise accountable in whole or in part for payment or other performance of  the obli-
gation.
(B) The term does not include issuers or nominated persons under a letter of credit.
[(ggg)] (kkk)  “Original debtor,” except as  used in ORS 79.0310 (3), means a person that, as
debtor, entered  into a security agreement to which a new debtor has become bound under ORS
79.0203 (4).
[(hhh)] (LLL)  “Payment  intangible” means a general intangible under which the account
debtor’s principal obligation is a monetary obligation.  The term includes a controllable  payment
intangible.
[(iii)] (mmm)  “Person related to,” with respect to an individual, means:
(A) The spouse of the individual;
(B) A brother, brother-in-law, sister or sister-in-law of the individual;
(C) An ancestor or lineal descendant of the individual or the individual’s spouse; or
(D) Any other relative, by blood or marriage, of the individual or the individual’s  spouse who
shares the same home with the individual.
[(jjj)] (nnn) “Person related to,” with respect to an organization, means:
(A) A person  directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under common control with the
organization;
(B) An officer or director of, or  a person performing similar functions with respect to, the or-
ganization;
(C) An officer or director of, or a person performing similar functions with respect to,  a person
described in subparagraph (A) of this paragraph;
(D) The spouse of an individual described in subparagraph (A), (B) or (C) of this paragraph; or
(E) An individual who is related by blood or marriage to an individual described  in subpara-
graph (A), (B), (C) or (D) of this paragraph and shares the same home with the individual.
[(kkk)] (ooo) “Proceeds,” except as used in ORS 79.0609 (2), means the following property:
(A) Whatever is acquired upon the sale, lease, license, exchange or  other disposition of collat-
eral;
(B) Whatever is collected on, or distributed on account of, collateral;
(C) Rights arising out of collateral;
(D) To the extent  of the value of collateral, claims arising out of the loss, nonconformity or in-
terference with the use of, defects or infringement of rights in, or damage to, the collateral; or
(E) To the extent of the value of collateral and to the extent  payable to the debtor or the se-
cured party, insurance  payable by reason of the loss or nonconformity of, defects or infringement
of rights in, or damage to, the collateral.
[(LLL)] (ppp) “Promissory note” means  an instrument that evidences a promise to pay a mone-
tary obligation, does not evidence an order  to pay, and does not contain an acknowledgment by a
bank that the bank has received for deposit a sum of money or funds.
[(mmm)] (qqq) “Proposal” means a record [ authenticated] signed by a  secured party which in-
cludes the terms on which  the secured party is willing to accept collateral in full or partial satis-
faction of the obligation it secures pursuant to ORS 79.0620, 79.0621 and 79.0622.
[(nnn)] (rrr)  “Public-finance transaction” means  a secured transaction in connection with which:
(A) Debt securities are issued;
(B) All or a portion of the securities issued have an initial stated maturity of at least  20 years;
and
(C) The debtor, obligor, secured party, account  debtor or other person obligated on collateral,
assignor or assignee of  a secured obligation, or assignor or assignee of a security interest is a state
or a governmental unit of a state.
[(ooo)] (sss)  “Public organic record” means a record that is available to the public for inspection
and is:
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 32
(A) A record consisting of the record initially filed with or issued by a state  or the United
States to form or organize an organization and any record filed with or issued by the state or the
United States that amends or restates the initial record;
(B) An organic record of a business trust consisting of the record initially filed with a state  and
any record filed with the state that amends or  restates the initial record, if a statute of the state
governing business trusts requires that the record be filed with the state; or
(C) A record  consisting of legislation enacted by the legislature of a state or the Congress of
the United States that forms or organizes an organization, any record amending the legislation and
any record filed with  or issued by the state or the United States that amends or restates the name
of the organization.
[(ppp)] (ttt)  “Pursuant to commitment,” with respect to an advance made or other value given
by a secured party, means pursuant to the secured  party’s obligation, whether or not a subsequent
event of default or other event not within  the secured party’s control has relieved or may relieve
the secured party from its obligation.
[(qqq)] (uuu)  “Record,” except as used in “for record,” “of record,” “record or legal title”  and
“record owner,” means information that is inscribed on a tangible medium or which is stored in  an
electronic or other medium and is retrievable in perceivable form.
[(rrr)] (vvv)  “Registered organization” means an organization  formed or organized solely under
the law of  a single state or the United States by the filing of a public organic record with, the is-
suance of a public organic record by or the  enactment of legislation by the state or the United
States. “Registered organization” includes a  business trust that is formed or organized under the
law of a single state if a statute of the state governing business trusts requires  that the business
trust’s organic record be filed with the state.
[(sss)] (www) “Secondary obligor” means an obligor to the extent that:
(A) The obligor’s obligation is secondary; or
(B) The  obligor has a right of recourse with respect to an obligation secured by collateral
against the debtor, another obligor, or property of either.
[(ttt)] (xxx) “Secured party” means:
(A) A person in whose favor a security interest is created or provided for under a  security
agreement, whether or not any obligation to be secured is outstanding;
(B) A person that holds an agricultural lien;
(C) A consignor;
(D) A person to which accounts, chattel paper, payment intangibles or  promissory notes have
been sold;
(E) A trustee, indenture trustee, agent, collateral agent or other  representative in whose favor
a security interest or agricultural lien is created or provided for; or
(F) A person that holds a security interest  arising under ORS 72.4010, 72.5050, 72.7110 (3),
72A.5080 (5), 74.2100 or 75.1180.
[(uuu)] (yyy)  “Security agreement” means an agreement  that creates or provides for a security
interest.
[(vvv) “Send,” in connection with a record or notification, means: ]
[(A) To deposit in the  mail, deliver for transmission, or transmit by any other usual means of
communication, with postage or cost of transmission provided for, addressed to any  address reasonable
under the circumstances; or ]
[(B) To cause the record or notification to be  received within the time that it would have been re-
ceived if properly sent under subparagraph (A) of this paragraph. ]
[(www)(A) ] (zzz)(A)  “Software” means a computer program and any  supporting information
provided in connection with a transaction relating to the program.
(B) The term does not include a computer program that is included in the definition of goods.
[(xxx) ] (aaaa) “State” means a state of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico,
the United States Virgin Islands or  any territory or insular possession subject to the jurisdiction
of the United States.
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 33
[(yyy)] (bbbb) “Supporting obligation” means a letter-of-credit right or secondary obligation that
supports the payment or performance of an account,  chattel paper, a document, a general intangible,
an instrument or investment property.
[(zzz) “Tangible chattel paper” means chattel paper evidenced by  a record or records consisting
of information that is inscribed on a tangible medium. ]
(cccc) “Tangible money” means money in a tangible form.
[(aaaa)] (dddd) “Termination statement” means an amendment of a financing statement which:
(A) Identifies, by its file number, the initial financing statement to which it relates; and
(B) Indicates either that it is a termination statement or that  the identified financing statement
is no longer effective.
[(bbbb)] (eeee)  “Transmitting utility” means an organization primarily engaged  in the business
of:
(A) Operating a railroad, subway, street railway or trolley bus;
(B) Transmitting communications electrically, electromagnetically or by light;
(C) Transmitting goods by pipeline or sewer; or
(D) Transmitting or producing and transmitting electricity, steam, gas or water.
(2) “Control” as provided in ORS 77.1060 and the following definitions  in other sections apply
to this chapter:
“Applicant” ORS 75.1020
“Beneficiary” ORS 75.1020
“Broker” ORS 78.1020
“Certificated security” ORS 78.1020
“Check” ORS 73.0104
“Clearing corporation” ORS 78.1020
“Contract for sale” ORS 72.1060
“Controllable electronic
record” Section 95
of this
2025 Act
“Customer” ORS 74.1040
“Entitlement holder” ORS 78.1020
“Financial asset” ORS 78.1020
“Holder in due course” ORS 73.0302
“Issuer” (with respect
to a letter of credit or
letter-of-credit right) ORS 75.1020
“Issuer” (with respect
to a security) ORS 78.2010
“Issuer” (with respect
to documents of title) ORS 77.1020
“Lease” ORS 72A.1030
“Lease agreement” ORS 72A.1030
“Lease contract” ORS 72A.1030
“Leasehold interest” ORS 72A.1030
“Lessee” ORS 72A.1030
“Lessee in ordinary course
of business” ORS 72A.1030
“Lessor” ORS 72A.1030
“Lessor’s residual
interest” ORS 72A.1030
“Letter of credit” ORS 75.1020
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 34
“Merchant” ORS 72.1040
“Negotiable instrument” ORS 73.0104
“Nominated person” ORS 75.1020
“Note” ORS 73.0104
“Proceeds of a letter
of credit” ORS 75.1140
“Protected purchaser” ORS 78.3030
“Prove” ORS 73.0103
“Qualifying purchaser” Section 95
of this
2025 Act
“Sale” ORS 72.1060
“Securities account” ORS 78.5010
“Securities intermediary” ORS 78.1020
“Security” ORS 78.1020
“Security certificate” ORS 78.1020
“Security entitlement” ORS 78.1020
“Uncertificated security” ORS 78.1020
(3) ORS chapter 71 contains general  definitions and principles of construction and interpretation
applicable throughout this chapter.
SECTION 45.
 ORS 79.0104 is amended to read:
79.0104. (1) A secured party has control of a deposit account if:
(a) The secured party is the bank with which the deposit account is maintained;
(b) The debtor, secured party and bank have agreed in [ an authenticated] a signed  record that
the bank  will comply with instructions originated by the secured party directing disposition of the
funds in the deposit account without further consent by the debtor; [ or]
(c) The secured party becomes the bank’s customer with respect to the deposit account[ .]; or
(d) Another person, other than the debtor:
(A) Has control of the deposit account and acknowledges that it has control  on behalf
of the secured party; or
(B) Obtains control of the deposit account after having acknowledged that it will obtain
control of the deposit account on behalf of the secured party.
(2) A secured party that has  satisfied subsection (1) of this section has control, even if the
debtor retains the right to direct the disposition of funds from the deposit account.
SECTION 46.
 ORS 79.0105 is amended to read:
79.0105. [(1) A secured party has control of electronic chattel paper if  a system employed for evi-
dencing the transfer of interests in the chattel  paper reliably establishes the secured party as the person
to which the chattel paper was assigned. ]
[(2) A system satisfies the  provisions of subsection (1) of this section if the record or records com-
prising the chattel paper are created, stored and assigned in such a manner that: ]
[(a) A single authoritative copy of  the record or records exists which is unique, identifiable and,
except as otherwise provided in paragraphs (d), (e) and (f) of this subsection, unalterable; ]
[(b) The authoritative copy identifies the secured party as the assignee of the record or records; ]
[(c) The authoritative copy is communicated to and maintained by  the secured party or its desig-
nated custodian; ]
[(d) Copies or amendments that add or change an identified assignee of the authoritative copy  can
be made only with the consent of the secured party; ]
[(e) Each  copy of the authoritative copy and any copy of a copy is readily identifiable as a copy that
is not the authoritative copy; and ]
[(f) Any  amendment of the authoritative copy is readily identifiable as authorized or
unauthorized.]
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 35
(1) A purchaser has control  of an authoritative electronic copy of a record evidencing
chattel paper if a system employed for evidencing the assignment of interests in the  chattel
paper reliably establishes the purchaser as the person to which the  authoritative electronic
copy was assigned.
(2) A system satisfies subsection  (1) of this section if the record or records evidencing
the chattel paper are created, stored and assigned in a manner that:
(a) A single authoritative copy of the record or  records exists that is unique, identifiable
and, except as  otherwise provided in paragraphs (d), (e) and (f) of this subsection, unalter-
able;
(b) The authoritative copy identifies the purchaser as the assignee of the record  or re-
cords;
(c) The authoritative copy is  communicated to and maintained by the purchaser or its
designated custodian;
(d) Copies or amendments that add  or change an identified assignee of the authoritative
copy can be made only with the consent of the purchaser;
(e) Each copy of the authoritative copy and any copy of a copy is readily  identifiable as
a copy that is not the authoritative copy; and
(f) Any  amendment of the authoritative copy is readily identifiable as authorized or un-
authorized.
(3) A system satisfies subsection (1) of this section, and a purchaser  has control of an
authoritative electronic copy of a record evidencing chattel paper, if the electronic copy, a
record attached to or logically associated with the electronic copy, or a  system in which the
electronic copy is recorded:
(a) Enables  the purchaser readily to identify each electronic copy as either an authori-
tative copy or a nonauthoritative copy;
(b) Enables the purchaser readily  to identify itself in any way, including by name, iden-
tifying number, cryptographic key, office or account number, as the assignee  of the author-
itative electronic copy; and
(c) Gives the purchaser exclusive power, subject to subsection (4) of this section, to:
(A) Prevent others from adding or changing an identified  assignee of the authoritative
electronic copy; and
(B) Transfer control of the authoritative electronic copy.
(4) Subject to  subsection (5) of this section, a power is exclusive under subsection (3)(c)
of this section even if:
(a) The authoritative electronic copy, a record attached to or logically associated with
the authoritative electronic copy or a system in which the authoritative  electronic copy is
recorded limits the use of  the authoritative electronic copy or has a protocol programmed
to cause a change, including a transfer or loss of control; or
(b) The power is shared with another person.
(5) A power of a purchaser  is not shared with another person under subsection (4)(b) of
this section and the purchaser’s power is not exclusive if:
(a) The purchaser can exercise the power only if the power also is exercised by the other
person; and
(b) The other person:
(A) Can exercise the power without exercise of the power by the purchaser; or
(B) Is the transferor to the purchaser of an interest in the chattel paper.
(6) If a purchaser has the powers specified in subsection (3)(c) of this  section, the powers
are presumed to be exclusive.
(7) A purchaser has control  of an authoritative electronic copy of a record evidencing
chattel paper if another person, other than the transferor  to the purchaser of an interest in
the chattel paper:
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 36
(a) Has control of the authoritative electronic copy  and acknowledges that it has control
on behalf of the purchaser; or
(b) Obtains control of the authoritative electronic copy after having acknowledged that
it will obtain control of the electronic copy on behalf of the purchaser.
SECTION 46a. Sections 47, 48 and 49 of this 2025 Act  are added to and made a part of
ORS chapter 79.
SECTION 47. (1) A person has control of electronic money if:
(a) The electronic money, a  record attached to or logically associated with the electronic
money, or a system in which the electronic money is recorded gives the person:
(A) Power to avail itself of substantially all the benefit from the electronic money; and
(B) Exclusive power, subject to subsection (2) of this section, to:
(i) Prevent others from  availing themselves of substantially all the benefit from the
electronic money; and
(ii) Transfer control of the electronic money to  another person or cause another person
to obtain control of other electronic money as a result of the transfer of the electronic
money; and
(b) The electronic money, a  record attached to or logically associated with the electronic
money, or a system in which the electronic money is recorded enables the person  readily to
identify itself in any  way, including by name, identifying number, cryptographic key, office
or account number, as having the powers under paragraph (a) of this subsection.
(2) Subject to subsection (3) of this section, a power is exclusive  under subsection
(1)(a)(B) of this section even if:
(a) The electronic money, a  record attached to or logically associated with the electronic
money or a system in which the electronic money is recorded limits  the use of the electronic
money or has a protocol programmed to cause a change, including a transfer or loss of
control; or
(b) The power is shared with another person.
(3) A power of a person is  not shared with another person under subsection (2)(b) of this
section and the person’s power is not exclusive if:
(a) The person can exercise the power only if the power  also is exercised by the other
person; and
(b) The other person:
(A) Can exercise the power without exercise of the power by the person; or
(B) Is the transferor to the person of an interest in the electronic money.
(4) If  a person has the powers specified in subsection (1)(a)(B) of this section, the powers
are presumed to be exclusive.
(5) A person has control of electronic money if  another person, other than the transferor
to the person of an interest in the electronic money:
(a) Has control of the electronic money and acknowledges that  it has control on behalf
of the person; or
(b) Obtains control of the electronic money after  having acknowledged that it will obtain
control of the electronic money on behalf of the person.
SECTION 48.
(1) A secured party has control of a controllable electronic record  as pro-
vided in section 98 of this 2025 Act.
(2) A secured party has control of  a controllable account or controllable payment intan-
gible if the secured party has control of the controllable electronic record that evidences the
controllable account or controllable payment intangible.
SECTION 49. (1) A person that has control under ORS 79.0104 or 79.0105 or section 47 of
this 2025 Act is not required to acknowledge that it  has control on behalf of another person.
(2) If  a person acknowledges that it has or will obtain control on behalf of another per-
son, unless the person otherwise agrees  or law other than this chapter otherwise provides,
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 37
the person  does not owe any duty to the other person and is not required to confirm the
acknowledgement to any other person.
SECTION 50.  ORS 79.0203 is amended to read:
79.0203. (1) Except as otherwise provided in subsections (3)  to (9) of this section,  a security
interest attaches to collateral when it becomes enforceable  against the debtor with respect to the
collateral, unless an agreement expressly postpones the time of attachment.
(2) Except as otherwise provided in subsections (3) to (9) of this  section, a security interest is
enforceable against the debtor and third parties with respect to the collateral only if:
(a) Value has been given;
(b) The debtor has rights in the collateral or the power to transfer rights in the collateral to a
secured party; and
(c) One of the following conditions is met:
(A) The debtor has [ authenticated] signed a security agreement that provides a description of
the collateral and, if the security interest covers timber to  be cut, a description of the land con-
cerned;
(B) The collateral is not a certificated security and is in  the possession of the secured party
under ORS 79.0313 pursuant to the debtor’s security agreement;
(C) The collateral is a  certificated security in registered form and the security certificate has
been delivered to the  secured party under ORS 78.3010 pursuant to the debtor’s security agreement;
[or]
(D) The collateral is controllable accounts, controllable electronic records, controllable
payment intangibles, deposit accounts, electronic  [ chattel paper ] documents, electronic money ,
investment property[ ,] or  letter-of-credit rights , [ or electronic documents, ] and the secured party has
control under ORS 77.1060, 79.0104, [ 79.0105,] 79.0106 or 79.0107  or section 47 or 48 of this 2025
Act pursuant to the debtor’s security agreement[ .]; or
(E) The collateral is chattel paper and the  secured party has possession and control un-
der section 65 of this 2025 Act pursuant to the debtor’s security agreement.
(3) Subsection (2) of this section is subject to ORS 74.2100 on the security interest of a collecting
bank, ORS 75.1180  on the security interest of a letter-of-credit issuer or nominated person, ORS
79.0110 on a security interest arising under  ORS chapter 72 or 72A and ORS 79.0206 on security
interests in investment property.
(4) A person becomes bound as debtor  by a security agreement entered into by another person
if, by operation of law other than this chapter or by contract:
(a) The security  agreement becomes effective to create a security interest in the person’s prop-
erty; or
(b) The person becomes generally obligated for the obligations  of the other person, including the
obligation secured under the security agreement,  and acquires or succeeds to all or substantially
all of the assets of the other person.
(5) If a new debtor becomes bound  as debtor by a security agreement entered into by another
person:
(a) The agreement satisfies subsection (2)(c) of this  section with respect to existing or after-
acquired property of the new debtor to the extent the property is described in the agreement; and
(b) Another agreement is not necessary to make  a security interest in the property enforceable.
(6) The attachment  of a security interest in collateral gives the secured party the rights to
proceeds provided by ORS 79.0315 and is also attachment of a  security interest in a supporting ob-
ligation for the collateral.
(7) The attachment of a security interest in a right to payment or  performance secured by a
security interest or other lien on personal or real  property is also attachment of a security interest
in the security interest, mortgage or other lien.
(8) The attachment of a security interest in a securities account is  also attachment of a security
interest in the security entitlements carried in the securities account.
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 38
(9) The attachment of a security interest in a  commodity account is also attachment of a secu-
rity interest in the commodity contracts carried in the commodity account.
SECTION 51.  ORS 79.0204 is amended to read:
79.0204. (1) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (2) of this section, a security  agreement
may create or provide for a security interest in after-acquired collateral.
(2)(a) Subject to paragraph (b) of this subsection,  a security interest does  not attach under
a term constituting an after-acquired property clause to:
[(a)] (A)  Consumer goods, other than  an accession when given as additional security, unless the
debtor acquires rights in them within 10 days after the secured party gives value; or
[(b)] (B)  A commercial tort claim.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this subsection does not prevent a security interest from attaching:
(A) To consumer goods as proceeds under ORS 79.0315 (1); or
(B) Under an after-acquired  property clause to property that is proceeds of consumer
goods or a commercial tort claim.
(3) A security agreement may provide that collateral secures, or that accounts, chattel  paper,
payment intangibles or promissory notes are sold in connection with, future advances or other value,
whether or not the advances or value are given pursuant to commitment.
SECTION 52.
 ORS 79.0207 is amended to read:
79.0207. (1) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (4) of this section, a  secured party shall
use reasonable care in the custody and preservation of collateral in the secured  party’s possession.
In the  case of chattel paper or an instrument, reasonable care includes taking necessary steps to
preserve rights against prior parties unless otherwise agreed.
(2) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (4) of  this section, if a secured party has pos-
session of collateral:
(a) Reasonable expenses,  including the cost of insurance and payment of taxes or other charges,
incurred in the custody, preservation, use or  operation of the collateral are chargeable to the debtor
and are secured by the collateral;
(b) The risk of accidental loss or damage is on the debtor to the extent of a deficiency in any
effective insurance coverage;
(c) The secured party shall keep the  collateral identifiable, but fungible collateral may be
commingled; and
(d) The secured party may use or operate the collateral:
(A) For the purpose of preserving the collateral or its value;
(B) As permitted by an order of a court having competent jurisdiction; or
(C) Except in the case of consumer goods, in the  manner and to the extent agreed by the debtor.
(3) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (4) of this section,  a secured party having pos-
session of collateral or control of collateral under ORS 77.1060,  79.0104, 79.0105, 79.0106 or 79.0107
or section 47 or 48 of this 2025 Act :
(a) May  hold as additional security any proceeds, except money or funds, received from the
collateral;
(b) Shall apply money  or funds received from the collateral to reduce the secured obligation,
unless remitted to the debtor; and
(c) May create a security interest in the collateral.
(4) If the secured party is a buyer of accounts, chattel paper, payment intangibles or promissory
notes or a consignor:
(a) Subsection (1) of this section does not apply unless the secured party is entitled under an
agreement:
(A) To charge back uncollected collateral; or
(B) Otherwise to  full or limited recourse against the debtor or a secondary obligor based on the
nonpayment or other default of an account debtor or other obligor on the collateral; and
(b) Subsections (2) and (3) of this section do not apply.
SECTION 53.
 ORS 79.0208 is amended to read:
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 39
79.0208. (1) This section applies to cases  in which there is no outstanding secured obligation and
the secured party is not committed to make advances, incur obligations or otherwise give value.
(2) Within 10 days after receiving [ an authenticated] a signed  demand by the debtor:
(a) A secured party having control of a deposit account under ORS 79.0104 (1)(b)  shall send to
the bank with which the  deposit account is maintained [ an authenticated statement] a signed record
that releases the bank from any further obligation to comply with instructions originated  by the
secured party;
(b) A secured party having control of a deposit account under ORS 79.0104 (1)(c) shall:
(A) Pay the debtor the balance on deposit in the deposit account; or
(B) Transfer the balance on deposit into a deposit account in the debtor’s name;
[(c) A secured party, other than a buyer,  having control of electronic chattel paper under ORS
79.0105 shall:]
[(A) Communicate the authoritative copy of the electronic chattel paper to the  debtor or its desig-
nated custodian;]
[(B) If the debtor designates a custodian that is the designated custodian with  which the authori-
tative copy of the electronic chattel  paper is maintained for the secured party, communicate to the
custodian an authenticated record  releasing the designated custodian from any further obligation to
comply with instructions originated by the secured party and instructing the custodian  to comply with
instructions originated by the debtor; and ]
[(C) Take appropriate action to enable  the debtor or its designated custodian to make copies of or
amendments to the authoritative copy which add or change an identified assignee of the  authoritative
copy without the consent of the secured party; ]
(c) A secured party, other than a buyer, having control under ORS 79.0105 of an author-
itative electronic copy of a record evidencing chattel paper  shall transfer control of the
electronic copy to the debtor or a person designated by the debtor;
(d) A secured party having control of investment property under  ORS 78.1060 (4)(b) or 79.0106
(2) shall  send to the securities intermediary or commodity intermediary with which the security
entitlement or commodity  contract is maintained [ an authenticated] a signed record that releases the
securities intermediary or commodity intermediary from any further obligation to comply with
entitlement orders or directions originated by the secured party;
(e) A secured party having control of a letter-of-credit  right under ORS 79.0107 shall send to
each person having an unfulfilled obligation to pay or deliver proceeds  of the letter of credit to the
secured party [ an authenticated] a signed  release from any further obligation to pay or deliver  pro-
ceeds of the letter of credit to the secured party; [ and]
[(f) A secured party having control of an electronic document shall: ]
[(A) Give control of the electronic document to the debtor or a designated custodian; ]
[(B) If the debtor designates a custodian that is the designated custodian with  which the authori-
tative copy of the electronic  document is maintained for the secured party, communicate to the custodian
an authenticated record releasing the designated custodian from any further obligation to comply  with
instructions originated by the secured party and instructing the custodian to  comply with instructions
originated by the debtor; and ]
[(C) Take appropriate action to enable the debtor or its designated custodian  to make copies of or
amendments to the  authoritative copy that add or change an identified assignee of the authoritative
copy without the consent of the secured party. ]
(f) A secured party having control under ORS 77.1060 of an authoritative electronic  copy
of an electronic document shall transfer control of the electronic copy to the debtor or  a
person designated by the debtor;
(g) A  secured party having control under section 47 of this 2025 Act of electronic money
shall transfer control of the electronic money to the debtor or a  person designated by the
debtor; and
(h) A secured party having control under section 98 of  this 2025 Act of a controllable
electronic record, other than  a buyer of a controllable account or controllable payment in-
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 40
tangible evidenced by the controllable electronic  record, shall transfer control of the con-
trollable electronic record to the debtor or a person designated by the debtor.
SECTION 54.  ORS 79.0209 is amended to read:
79.0209. (1) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (3) of this section, this  section applies
if:
(a) There is no outstanding secured obligation; and
(b) The secured party is not committed to make advances, incur obligations, or  otherwise give
value.
(2) Within 10 days after receiving [ an authenticated] a signed  demand by  the debtor, a secured
party shall send to an account debtor that has received notification  under ORS 79.0406 (1) or
section 99 of this 2025 Act  of an assignment to the secured party as assignee [ under ORS 79.0406
(1) an authenticated ] a signed  record  that releases the account debtor from any further obligation
to the secured party.
(3) This  section does not apply to an assignment constituting the sale of an account, chattel
paper or payment intangible.
SECTION 55.
 ORS 79.0210 is amended to read:
79.0210. (1) As used in this section:
(a) “Request” means a record of a type described in paragraph (b), (c) or (d) of this subsection.
(b) “Request for an accounting” means a record [ authenticated] signed by a debtor  requesting
that the recipient provide an accounting of the unpaid obligations secured by collateral and  rea-
sonably identifying the transaction or relationship that is the subject of the request.
(c) “Request regarding a list of collateral” means a record  [ authenticated] signed  by a debtor
requesting that the recipient approve or correct a  list of what the debtor believes to be the collat-
eral securing an obligation and reasonably identifying the transaction or relationship  that is the
subject of the request.
(d) “Request regarding  a statement of account” means a record [ authenticated] signed  by a
debtor requesting that  the recipient approve or correct a statement indicating what the debtor be-
lieves to be the aggregate amount of unpaid obligations secured by collateral as of a specified date
and reasonably identifying the transaction or relationship that is the subject of the request.
(2) Subject to subsections (3), (4), (5) and  (6) of this section, a secured party, other than a buyer
of accounts, chattel  paper, payment intangibles or promissory notes or a consignor, shall comply
with a request within 14 days after receipt:
(a) In the case of a request for an accounting, by [ authenticating] signing  and sending to the
debtor an accounting; and
(b) In the case of a request regarding a  list of collateral or a request regarding a statement of
account, by [ authenticating] signing and sending to the debtor an approval or correction.
(3) A secured party that claims a security interest in all of a particular  type of collateral owned
by the debtor may comply with a request regarding a list of collateral by sending to  the debtor [ an
authenticated] a signed  record including a statement to that effect within 14 days after receipt.
(4) A  person that receives a request regarding a list of collateral, claims no interest in the
collateral when it receives the request, and claimed  an interest in the collateral at an earlier time
shall comply with the request within 14 days  after receipt by sending to the debtor [an
authenticated] a signed  record:
(a) Disclaiming any interest in the collateral; and
(b) If known to the recipient, providing the name and mailing address  of any assignee of or
successor to the recipient’s interest in the collateral.
(5) A person that receives a request for an accounting or a  request regarding a statement of
account, claims no  interest in the obligations when it receives the request, and claimed an interest
in the obligations at an earlier time shall comply with the request within 14 days  after receipt by
sending to the debtor [ an authenticated] a signed  record:
(a) Disclaiming any interest in the obligations; and
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 41
(b) If known to the recipient, providing the name and mailing address  of any assignee of or
successor to the recipient’s interest in the obligations.
(6) A debtor is entitled without  charge to one response to a request under this section during
any six-month  period. The secured party may require payment of a charge not exceeding $25 for
each additional response.
SECTION 56.  ORS 79.0301 is amended to read:
79.0301. Except as otherwise provided in ORS 79.0303 to 79.0306  and in sections 59 and 60 of
this 2025 Act , the following rules determine the law  governing perfection, the effect of perfection
or nonperfection and the priority of a security interest in collateral:
(1) Except as otherwise  provided in this section, while a debtor is located in a jurisdiction, the
local law of that jurisdiction governs perfection, the effect of perfection or nonperfection  and the
priority of a security interest in collateral.
(2) While collateral is located in a jurisdiction, the local law of that jurisdiction governs per-
fection, the effect of perfection or nonperfection, and the priority of a  possessory security interest
in that collateral.
(3) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (4) of this  section, while [ tangible] negotiable
tangible documents, goods, instruments[ ,] or  tangible money [ or tangible chattel paper ] is located in
a jurisdiction, the local law of that jurisdiction governs:
(a) Perfection of a security interest in the goods by filing a fixture filing;
(b) Perfection of a security interest in timber to be cut; and
(c) The effect  of perfection or nonperfection and the priority of a nonpossessory security interest
in the collateral.
(4) The local law of the jurisdiction in which the  wellhead or minehead is located governs per-
fection, the effect of perfection or nonperfection and the priority  of a security interest in as-
extracted collateral.
SECTION 57.
 ORS 79.0304 is amended to read:
79.0304. (1) The local law of a bank’s jurisdiction governs perfection, the effect of perfection  or
nonperfection and the priority  of a security interest in a deposit account maintained with that bank
even if the transaction does not bear any relation to the bank’s jurisdiction .
(2) The following rules determine a bank’s jurisdiction for purposes of ORS 79.0301 to 79.0342:
(a) If an agreement between the bank and the debtor governing  the deposit account expressly
provides that a  particular jurisdiction is the bank’s jurisdiction for purposes of ORS 79.0301 to
79.0342, this chapter or the Uniform Commercial Code, that jurisdiction is the bank’s jurisdiction.
(b) If paragraph (a) of  this subsection does not apply and an agreement between the bank and
its customer governing the deposit account expressly provides  that the agreement is governed by
the law of a particular jurisdiction, that jurisdiction is the bank’s jurisdiction.
(c) If neither paragraph (a) nor paragraph (b) of this subsection applies and an agreement be-
tween the bank and its customer governing the deposit account expressly provides  that the deposit
account is maintained at  an office in a particular jurisdiction, that jurisdiction is the bank’s juris-
diction.
(d) If paragraphs (a) to (c) of this  subsection do not apply, the bank’s jurisdiction is the juris-
diction in which the office identified in an account statement as the office serving  the customer’s
account is located.
(e) If paragraphs (a) to (d) of this  subsection do not apply, the bank’s jurisdiction is the juris-
diction in which the chief executive office of the bank is located.
SECTION 58.
 ORS 79.0305 is amended to read:
79.0305. (1) Except as otherwise provided  in subsection (3) of this section, the following rules
apply:
(a) While a security certificate is located in  a jurisdiction, the local law of that jurisdiction
governs perfection, the effect of perfection  or nonperfection and the priority of a security interest
in the certificated security represented thereby.
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 42
(b) The local law of the issuer’s jurisdiction  as specified in ORS 78.1100 (4) governs perfection,
the effect of perfection or nonperfection and the priority  of a security interest in an uncertificated
security.
(c) The local law of the securities intermediary’s  jurisdiction as specified in ORS 78.1100 (5)
governs perfection, the effect of perfection or nonperfection and the  priority of a security interest
in a security entitlement or securities account.
(d) The  local law of the commodity intermediary’s jurisdiction governs perfection, the effect of
perfection or nonperfection and the priority of a security interest  in a commodity contract or com-
modity account.
(e) Paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this subsection apply even if the  transaction does not
bear any relation to the jurisdiction.
(2) The following rules determine a commodity intermediary’s  jurisdiction for purposes of ORS
79.0301 to 79.0342:
(a) If an agreement between the  commodity intermediary and commodity customer governing the
commodity account expressly provides that a particular jurisdiction is the commodity  intermediary’s
jurisdiction  for  purposes of ORS 79.0301 to 79.0342, this chapter or the Uniform Commercial Code,
that jurisdiction is the commodity intermediary’s jurisdiction.
(b) If paragraph (a) of this subsection does not apply and an agreement between the  commodity
intermediary and commodity customer governing the commodity account expressly provides that  the
agreement is governed by the law of a particular jurisdiction, that jurisdiction  is the commodity
intermediary’s jurisdiction.
(c) If neither paragraph (a) nor paragraph (b) of this subsection applies and an agreement be-
tween the  commodity intermediary and commodity customer governing the commodity account ex-
pressly provides that the commodity account is maintained  at an office in a particular jurisdiction,
that jurisdiction is the commodity intermediary’s jurisdiction.
(d) If paragraphs (a) to (c) of this subsection do not apply, the commodity  intermediary’s juris-
diction is the jurisdiction in which the office identified in an account  statement as the office serving
the commodity customer’s account is located.
(e) If paragraphs  (a) to (d) of this subsection do not apply, the commodity intermediary’s juris-
diction is the jurisdiction  in which the chief executive office of the commodity intermediary is lo-
cated.
(3) The local law of the jurisdiction in which the debtor is located governs:
(a) Perfection of a security interest in investment property by filing;
(b) Automatic perfection of a security interest  in investment property created by a broker or
securities intermediary; and
(c) Automatic perfection of a security interest  in a commodity contract or commodity account
created by a commodity intermediary.
SECTION 58a.
Sections 59 and 60 of this 2025 Act are added to and made a part of  ORS
chapter 79.
SECTION 59. (1) Except as provided in subsection (4)  of this section, if chattel paper is
evidenced only by an authoritative electronic copy of the chattel  paper or is evidenced by an
authoritative electronic  copy and an authoritative tangible copy, the local law of the chattel
paper’s jurisdiction  governs perfection, the effect of perfection or nonperfection and the
priority of a security interest in the chattel  paper, even if the transaction does not bear any
relation to the chattel paper’s jurisdiction.
(2) The following rules determine the chattel paper’s jurisdiction under this section:
(a) If the authoritative  electronic copy of the record evidencing chattel paper, or a record
attached to or logically associated with the electronic copy and readily available  for review,
expressly provides that a particular jurisdiction is the chattel paper’s jurisdiction for pur-
poses of this section, this chapter or the Uniform Commercial  Code, that jurisdiction is the
chattel paper’s jurisdiction.
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 43
(b) If paragraph (a)  of this subsection does not apply and the rules of the system in which
the authoritative electronic copy is recorded are readily  available for review and expressly
provide that a particular jurisdiction is the chattel paper’s  jurisdiction for purposes of this
section, this chapter or the Uniform Commercial Code, that jurisdiction is the chattel paper’s
jurisdiction.
(c) If paragraphs (a) and (b) of this subsection do not apply and the  authoritative elec-
tronic copy, or a record attached to or logically associated with the electronic copy  and
readily available for review, expressly provides that the chattel paper  is governed by the law
of a particular jurisdiction, that jurisdiction is the chattel paper’s jurisdiction.
(d) If paragraphs  (a), (b) and (c) of this subsection do not apply and the rules of the
system in which the authoritative electronic copy is recorded are readily available  for review
and expressly provide that the chattel paper  or the system is governed by the law of a par-
ticular jurisdiction, that jurisdiction is the chattel paper’s jurisdiction.
(e) If paragraphs (a) through  (d) of this subsection do not apply, the chattel paper’s ju-
risdiction is the jurisdiction in which the debtor is located.
(3) If an authoritative tangible copy of a record evidences chattel paper and  the chattel
paper is not evidenced by an authoritative electronic copy, while the authoritative  tangible
copy of the record evidencing chattel paper is located in a  jurisdiction, the local law of the
jurisdiction governs:
(a) Perfection of a security  interest in the chattel paper by possession under section 65
of this 2025 Act; and
(b) The effect of perfection or nonperfection and the priority of a security interest in the
chattel paper.
(4) The local law of the jurisdiction in which the debtor is located governs perfection of
a security interest in chattel paper by filing.
SECTION 60.
(1) Except as provided in subsection (2) of this section, the  local law of the
controllable electronic record’s jurisdiction specified in section 100  (3) and (4) of this 2025
Act governs perfection,  the effect of perfection or nonperfection and the priority of a secu-
rity interest in  a controllable electronic record and a security interest in a controllable ac-
count or controllable payment intangible evidenced by the controllable electronic record.
(2) The local law of the jurisdiction in which the debtor is located governs:
(a) Perfection of a security interest in a controllable account,  controllable electronic re-
cord or controllable payment intangible by filing; and
(b) Automatic perfection of a security interest in a controllable payment  intangible cre-
ated by a sale of the controllable payment intangible.
SECTION 61.
 ORS 79.0310 is amended to read:
79.0310. (1) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (2) of this section and ORS 79.0312 (2),
a financing statement must be filed to perfect all security interests and agricultural liens.
(2) The filing of a financing statement is not necessary to perfect a security interest:
(a) That is perfected under ORS 79.0308 (4), (5), (6) or (7);
(b) That is perfected under ORS 79.0309 when it attaches;
(c) In property subject to a statute, regulation or treaty described in ORS 79.0311 (1);
(d) In goods in possession of a bailee that are perfected under ORS 79.0312 (4)(a) or (b);
(e) In certificated securities, documents,  goods or instruments that are perfected without filing,
control or possession under ORS 79.0312 (5), (6) or (7);
(f) In collateral in the secured party’s possession under ORS 79.0313;
(g) In a certificated security which is perfected by delivery of the security  certificate to the
secured party under ORS 79.0313;
(h) In  controllable accounts, controllable  electronic records, controllable payment intan-
gibles, deposit accounts,  [ electronic chattel paper, ] electronic documents, investment property or
letter-of-credit rights that are perfected by control under ORS 79.0314;
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 44
(i) In chattel paper that is perfected by possession and control under  section 65 of this
2025 Act;
[(i)] (j)  In proceeds that are perfected under ORS 79.0315; or
[(j)] (k)  That are perfected under ORS 79.0316.
(3) If a secured party assigns a perfected security interest or agricultural lien, a filing under this
chapter is not required to continue the perfected status  of the security interest against creditors
of and transferees from the original debtor.
SECTION 62.  ORS 79.0312 is amended to read:
79.0312. (1) A security interest in chattel paper, [ negotiable documents, ] controllable accounts,
controllable electronic records, controllable payment intangibles,  instruments , [ or] investment
property  or negotiable documents  may be perfected by filing. Except for goods in which  filing is
not necessary or effective to perfect a  security interest under this chapter, a security interest in
goods may be perfected by filing.
(2) Except as otherwise provided in ORS 79.0315 (3) and (4) for proceeds:
(a) A security interest in a deposit  account may be perfected only by control under ORS 79.0314;
(b) And except as otherwise provided in ORS 79.0308 (4), a security interest in  a letter-of-credit
right may be perfected only by control under ORS 79.0314; [ and]
(c) A security interest in  tangible money may be perfected only by  the secured party’s taking
possession under ORS 79.0313[ .]; and
(d) A security interest in electronic money may  be perfected only by control under ORS
79.0314.
(3) While goods are in the possession of a bailee that has  issued a negotiable document covering
the goods:
(a) A security interest in the goods may be perfected  by perfecting a security interest in the
document; and
(b) A security interest perfected in the document has  priority over any security interest that
becomes perfected in the goods by another method during that time.
(4) While goods are in the possession of a bailee that has  issued a nonnegotiable document
covering the goods, a security interest in the goods may be perfected by:
(a) Issuance of a document in the name of the secured party;
(b) The bailee’s receipt of notification of the secured party’s interest; or
(c) Filing as to the goods.
(5) A security interest in certificated securities, negotiable documents or instruments is per-
fected without filing or the taking of possession or control for a period  of 20 days from the time it
attaches to the  extent that it arises for new value given under [ an authenticated] a signed  security
agreement.
(6) A perfected security interest in a negotiable document  or goods in possession of a bailee,
other than one that has issued a negotiable document for the goods, remains  perfected for 20 days
without filing  if the secured party makes available to the debtor the goods or documents repres-
enting the goods for the purpose of:
(a) Ultimate sale or exchange; or
(b) Loading, unloading, storing, shipping,  transshipping, manufacturing, processing or otherwise
dealing with them in a manner preliminary to their sale or exchange.
(7) A perfected security interest  in a certificated security or instrument remains perfected for
20 days without filing if the secured party delivers the security certificate or instrument  to the
debtor for the purpose of:
(a) Ultimate sale or exchange; or
(b) Presentation, collection, enforcement, renewal or registration of transfer.
(8) After the 20-day period specified in subsection (5),  (6) or (7) of this section expires, perfection
depends upon compliance with this chapter.
SECTION 63.
 ORS 79.0313 is amended to read:
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 45
79.0313. (1) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (2)  of this section, a secured party may
perfect a security interest in [ tangible negotiable documents, ] goods, instruments,  negotiable tangi-
ble documents or tangible  money [ or tangible chattel paper ] by taking possession of  the collateral.
A secured party may perfect a security interest in certificated securities by taking delivery of  the
certificated securities under ORS 78.3010.
(2) With  respect to goods that are covered by a certificate of title issued by this state or that
are manufactured structures, a secured party  may perfect a security interest in the goods by taking
possession of the goods only in the circumstances described in ORS 79.0316 (5).
(3) With respect to collateral other than  certificated securities and goods covered by a docu-
ment, a secured party takes possession of collateral in  the possession of a person other than the
debtor, the secured party or a lessee of the collateral from the  debtor in the ordinary course of the
debtor’s business, when:
(a) The person in possession [ authenticates] signs  a record acknowledging that it holds pos-
session of the collateral for the secured party’s benefit; or
(b) The person takes possession of the collateral after having [ authenticated] signed  a  record
acknowledging that it will hold possession of  the  collateral for the secured party’s benefit.
(4) If perfection of a security interest depends upon  possession of the collateral by a secured
party, perfection occurs [ no] not  earlier than the time  the secured party takes possession and con-
tinues only while the secured party retains possession.
(5) A security interest in a certificated security in registered form is perfected  by delivery when
delivery of the certificated security occurs under ORS 78.3010 and remains perfected by  delivery
until the debtor obtains possession of the security certificate.
(6) A person in possession of collateral is  not required to acknowledge that it holds possession
for a secured party’s benefit.
(7) If a person acknowledges that it holds possession for the secured party’s benefit:
(a) The acknowledgment is effective under subsection (3) of this  section or ORS 78.3010 (1), even
if the acknowledgment violates the rights of a debtor; and
(b) Unless the person otherwise agrees or law  other than this chapter otherwise provides, the
person does not owe any duty to the  secured party and is not required to confirm the acknowledg-
ment to another person.
(8) A secured party having possession of collateral does not relinquish possession  by delivering
the collateral to a person other than the debtor or a lessee of the collateral from the debtor in  the
ordinary course of the  debtor’s business if the person was instructed before the delivery or is in-
structed contemporaneously with the delivery:
(a) To hold possession of the collateral for the secured party’s benefit; or
(b) To redeliver the collateral to the secured party.
(9) A secured party does not relinquish possession,  even if a delivery under subsection (8) of this
section violates the rights of  a debtor. A person to which collateral is delivered under subsection
(8) of this section does not owe any duty to the secured party and is not required  to confirm the
delivery to another person unless the person otherwise agrees or law  other than this chapter oth-
erwise provides.
SECTION 64.
 ORS 79.0314 is amended to read:
79.0314. (1) A security interest in  [ investment property, deposit accounts, letter-of-credit rights,
electronic chattel paper or electronic documents ] controllable  accounts, controllable electronic
records, controllable payment intangibles, deposit accounts, electronic documents, electronic
money, investment property or letter-of-credit  rights  may be perfected by control of the
collateral under ORS 77.1060, 79.0104,  79.0105, 79.0106 or 79.0107  or section 47 or 48 of this 2025
Act.
(2) A  security interest in [ deposit accounts, electronic chattel paper, letter-of-credit rights or elec-
tronic documents ] controllable accounts, controllable electronic records, controllable  payment
intangibles, deposit accounts, electronic documents, electronic money  or letter-of-credit
rights is perfected by control under  ORS 77.1060, 79.0104, 79.0105 or 79.0107  or section 47 or 48
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 46
of this 2025 Act  [ when] not earlier than the  time  the secured party obtains control and remains
perfected by control only while the secured party retains control.
(3) A security interest in investment property  is perfected by control under ORS 79.0106 [ from]
not earlier than  the time the  secured party obtains control and remains perfected by control until:
(a) The secured party does not have control; and
(b) One of the following occurs:
(A) If the collateral is a certificated security,  the debtor has or acquires possession of the se-
curity certificate;
(B) If  the collateral is an uncertificated security, the issuer has registered or registers the
debtor as the registered owner; or
(C) If the collateral is a security entitlement, the debtor is or becomes the entitlement holder.
SECTION 64a.
Section 65 of this 2025 Act is added to and made  a part of ORS chapter
79.
SECTION 65. (1) A secured party may perfect  a security interest in chattel paper by
taking possession of each authoritative  tangible copy of the record evidencing the chattel
paper and obtaining control of each authoritative electronic copy of the  electronic record
evidencing the chattel paper.
(2) A security interest is perfected under subsection  (1) of this section not earlier than
the time the secured party takes  possession and obtains control and remains perfected under
subsection (1) of this section only while the secured party retains possession and control.
(3) ORS 79.0313 (3) and (6) through (9)  apply to perfection by possession of an authori-
tative tangible copy of a record evidencing chattel paper.
SECTION 66.  ORS 79.0316 is amended to read:
79.0316. (1)  A security interest perfected pursuant to the law of the jurisdiction designated in
ORS 79.0301 (1) or 79.0305 (3)  or section 59 or 60 of this 2025 Act  remains perfected until the
earliest of:
(a) The time perfection would have ceased under the law of that jurisdiction;
(b) The  expiration of four months after a change of the debtor’s location to another jurisdiction;
or
(c) The expiration of one year after a transfer of collateral to a person that thereby becomes  a
debtor and is located in another jurisdiction.
(2) If a security interest described in subsection (1) of this section becomes perfected under  the
law of the other jurisdiction before the earliest time or event  described in that subsection, it re-
mains perfected thereafter. If the  security interest does not become perfected under the law of the
other jurisdiction before the earliest time or event, it becomes  unperfected and is deemed never to
have been perfected as against a purchaser of the collateral for value.
(3) A possessory security interest  in collateral, other than goods covered by a certificate of title,
a manufactured structure or as-extracted collateral consisting of goods, remains  continuously per-
fected if:
(a) The collateral  is located in one jurisdiction and subject to a security interest perfected under
the law of that jurisdiction;
(b) Thereafter the collateral is brought into another jurisdiction; and
(c) Upon entry into the other jurisdiction, the security interest is perfected under the  law of the
other jurisdiction.
(4) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (5) of this section, a security  interest in goods
covered by a certificate of title or in a manufactured  structure that is perfected by any method
under the law of another jurisdiction when the goods become covered by a certificate of  title or a
manufactured structure ownership document or deed record in this state remains perfected  until the
security interest would have become unperfected under the law of the other jurisdiction had  the
goods not become so covered.
(5) A security interest described in subsection (4) of this section becomes unperfected  as against
a purchaser of  the goods for value and is deemed never to have been perfected as against a pur-
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 47
chaser of the goods for value if the applicable requirements for  perfection under ORS 79.0311 (2) or
79.0313 are not satisfied before the earlier of:
(a) The time the  security interest would have become unperfected under the law of the other
jurisdiction had the goods not become covered by a certificate of title  or a manufactured structure
ownership document or deed record in this state; or
(b) The expiration of four months after the goods had become so covered.
(6) A security interest in  chattel paper, controllable  accounts, controllable electronic re-
cords, controllable  payment intangibles,  deposit accounts, letter-of-credit rights or investment
property  which  is perfected under the law of the  chattel paper’s jurisdiction, the controllable
electronic record’s jurisdiction, the  bank’s jurisdiction, the  issuer’s jurisdiction, a nominated
person’s jurisdiction, the securities intermediary’s jurisdiction or the commodity intermediary’s ju-
risdiction, as applicable, remains perfected until the earlier of:
(a) The time the security interest would have  become unperfected under the law of that juris-
diction; or
(b) The expiration of four months  after a change of the applicable jurisdiction to another juris-
diction.
(7) If a security interest described in subsection (6) of this section becomes perfected under  the
law of the  other jurisdiction before the earlier of the time or the end of the period described in
subsection (6) of  this section, it remains perfected thereafter. If the security interest does not be-
come perfected under the law of the other jurisdiction before the earlier of that time  or the end of
that period, it becomes unperfected and is deemed never to have been perfected  as against a pur-
chaser of the collateral for value.
(8) The following rules apply to collateral to which a  security interest attaches within four
months after the debtor changes the debtor’s location to another jurisdiction:
(a) A financing statement filed before the change pursuant to the law  of the jurisdiction desig-
nated in ORS 79.0301 (1) or 79.0305 (3) is effective to perfect a  security interest in the collateral if
the financing statement would have been effective to  perfect a security interest in the collateral had
the debtor not changed the debtor’s location.
(b) If a security interest perfected by a financing statement that is effective under paragraph  (a)
of this subsection becomes perfected under the law of the other jurisdiction before the  earlier of the
time the financing statement would have become ineffective under the law of the  jurisdiction des-
ignated in  ORS 79.0301 (1) or 79.0305 (3), or the expiration of the four-month period, it remains
perfected thereafter. If the  security interest does not become perfected under the law of the other
jurisdiction before the earlier time or event, it becomes unperfected and is deemed never to have
been perfected as against a purchaser of the collateral for value.
(9) If a financing statement naming an original debtor is filed pursuant to the  law of the juris-
diction designated in ORS 79.0301 (1) or 79.0305 (3) and the new  debtor in another jurisdiction, the
following rules apply:
(a) The financing statement is effective to  perfect a security interest in collateral acquired by
the new debtor before, and within four months  after, the new debtor becomes bound under ORS
79.0203 (4) if the financing statement would have been effective to perfect  a security interest in the
collateral had the collateral been acquired by the original debtor.
(b) A security interest perfected by the financing statement  and that becomes perfected under
the law of the  other jurisdiction before the earlier of the time the financing statement would have
become ineffective under the law of the jurisdiction designated in ORS 79.0301 (1) or 79.0305  (3), or
the expiration of the four-month period, remains perfected thereafter. A security interest  that is
perfected by the financing statement but that does not become  perfected under the law of the other
jurisdiction before the earlier time or event becomes unperfected  and is deemed never to have been
perfected as against a purchaser of the collateral for value.
SECTION 67.
 ORS 79.0317 is amended to read:
79.0317. (1) A security interest or agricultural lien is subordinate to the rights of:
(a) A person entitled to priority under ORS 79.0322; and
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 48
(b) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (5) of this section, a  person that becomes a lien
creditor before the earlier of the time:
(A) The security interest or agricultural lien is perfected; or
(B) One of the conditions specified in ORS 79.0203 (2)(c) is met and a financing statement  cov-
ering the collateral is filed.
(2) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (5) of this  section, a buyer, other than a secured
party, of [ tangible chattel paper, tangible documents, ] goods, instruments , tangible documents  or a
[certificated] security  certificate  takes  free of a security interest or agricultural lien if the buyer
gives value and receives delivery of the collateral without  knowledge of the security interest or
agricultural lien and before it is perfected.
(3) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (5) of this  section, a lessee of goods takes free
of a security interest or agricultural  lien if the lessee gives value and receives delivery of the
collateral without knowledge of the security interest or agricultural lien and before it is perfected.
(4) Subject to subsections (6) through (9) of this section,  a  licensee of a general intangible
or a buyer, other than a secured party, of  collateral other than [ tangible chattel paper, tangible
documents,] electronic money,  goods, instruments , tangible documents  or a  certificated security
takes free of a security  interest if the licensee or buyer gives value without knowledge of the se-
curity interest and before it is perfected.
(5) Except as otherwise provided in ORS 79.0320 and 79.0321, if a person  files a financing
statement with  respect to a purchase-money security interest before or within 20 days after the
debtor receives delivery of  the collateral, the security interest takes priority over the rights of a
buyer, lessee or lien  creditor which arise between the time the security interest attaches and the
time of filing.
(6) A buyer, other than a secured party, of chattel paper takes free of a security  interest
if, without knowledge of the security interest and before it is perfected, the buyer gives value
and:
(a) Receives delivery of each authoritative tangible copy of the  record evidencing the
chattel paper; and
(b) If  each authoritative electronic copy of the record evidencing the chattel paper can
be subjected to control under  ORS 79.0105, obtains control of each authoritative electronic
copy.
(7) A buyer of an electronic document takes  free of a security interest if, without
knowledge of the security interest and before it is  perfected, the buyer gives value and, if
each authoritative electronic copy of the document can be subjected to control under  ORS
77.1060, obtains control of each authoritative electronic copy.
(8) A buyer of a controllable electronic record takes  free of a security interest if, without
knowledge of the security interest and before it  is perfected, the buyer gives value and ob-
tains control of the controllable electronic record.
(9) A buyer, other  than a secured party, of a controllable account or controllable pay-
ment intangible takes free of a security interest if, without knowledge of the security inter-
est and before it is perfected, the buyer gives value and  obtains control of the controllable
account or controllable payment intangible.
SECTION 68.
 ORS 79.0323 is amended to read:
79.0323. (1) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (3) of this  section, for purposes of de-
termining the priority of a perfected security interest under ORS 79.0322 (1)(a), perfection of the
security interest dates from the time an advance is made  to the extent that the security interest
secures an advance that:
(a) Is made while the security interest is perfected only:
(A) Under ORS 79.0309 when it attaches; or
(B) Temporarily under ORS 79.0312 (5), (6) or (7); and
(b) Is not made pursuant to a commitment entered into before or while  the security interest is
perfected by a method other than under ORS 79.0309 or 79.0312 (5), (6) or (7).
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 49
(2) Except as otherwise provided in  subsection (3) of this section, a security interest is subor-
dinate to the rights of a person  that becomes a lien creditor to the extent that the security interest
secures an advance made more than 45 days after the person becomes a lien creditor  unless the
advance is made:
(a) Without knowledge of the lien; or
(b) Pursuant to a commitment entered into without knowledge of the lien.
(3) Subsections (1) and (2) of this section do not apply to a security interest  held by a secured
party that is a buyer of accounts, chattel paper, payment intangibles or promissory notes or  a
consignor.
(4) Except  as otherwise provided in subsection (5) of this section, a buyer of goods [ other than
a buyer in ordinary course of business ] takes free of a  security interest to the extent that it secures
advances made after the earlier of:
(a) The time the secured party acquires knowledge of the buyer’s purchase; or
(b) Forty-five days after the purchase.
(5) Subsection (4) of this section does not  apply if the advance is made pursuant to a commit-
ment entered into without knowledge of the  buyer’s purchase and before the expiration of the 45-day
period.
(6) Except as otherwise provided in  subsection (7) of this section, a lessee of goods[ , other than
a lessee in ordinary course of business, ] takes the leasehold interest free of a security interest to the
extent that it secures advances made after the earlier of:
(a) The time the secured party acquires knowledge of the lease; or
(b) Forty-five days after the lease contract becomes enforceable.
(7) Subsection (6) of this section does not  apply if the advance is made pursuant to a commit-
ment entered into without knowledge of the lease and before the expiration of the 45-day period.
SECTION 69.
 ORS 79.0324 is amended to read:
79.0324. (1) Except as  otherwise provided in subsection (7) of this section, a perfected
purchase-money security interest in goods other than inventory or  livestock has priority over a
conflicting security interest in the same goods, and, except as  otherwise provided in ORS 79.0327,
a perfected security interest in its identifiable proceeds also has priority, if the  purchase-money se-
curity interest is perfected when the debtor receives possession of the  collateral or within 20 days
thereafter.
(2) Subject to subsection (3) of this section and except  as otherwise provided in subsection (7)
of this section, a perfected purchase-money security interest in inventory has priority over a  con-
flicting security interest in the same inventory, has priority  over a conflicting security interest in
chattel paper or an instrument constituting proceeds of the inventory and in proceeds of the chattel
paper, if so provided in ORS 79.0330, and, except  as otherwise provided in ORS 79.0327, also has
priority in identifiable cash proceeds  of the inventory to the extent the identifiable cash proceeds
are received on or before the delivery of the inventory to a buyer, if:
(a) The purchase-money security interest is perfected when the  debtor receives possession of the
inventory;
(b) The purchase-money secured party sends [ an authenticated ] a signed  notification to  the
holder of the conflicting security interest;
(c) The holder of the conflicting security interest receives the notification within five  years be-
fore the debtor receives possession of the inventory; and
(d) The notification states that the person sending the notification has or expects to acquire  a
purchase-money security interest in inventory of the debtor and describes the inventory.
(3) Subsection  (2)(b) to (d) of this section applies only if the holder of the conflicting security
interest had filed a financing statement covering the same types of inventory:
(a) If the purchase-money security interest is perfected by filing, before the date of the filing;
or
(b) If the purchase-money security interest is temporarily perfected without  filing or possession
under ORS 79.0312 (6), before the beginning of the 20-day period thereunder.
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 50
(4) Subject to subsection (5) of this  section and except as otherwise provided in subsection (7)
of this section, a perfected  purchase-money security interest in livestock that are farm products has
priority  over  a conflicting security interest in the same livestock, and, except as otherwise provided
in ORS 79.0327, a perfected security interest in their identifiable proceeds and  identifiable products
in their unmanufactured states also has priority, if:
(a) The purchase-money security interest is perfected when the  debtor receives possession of the
livestock;
(b) The purchase-money secured party sends [ an authenticated ] a signed  notification to  the
holder of the conflicting security interest;
(c) The holder of the conflicting security interest receives the notification  within six months
before the debtor receives possession of the livestock; and
(d) The notification states that the person sending the notification has or expects to acquire  a
purchase-money security interest in livestock of the debtor and describes the livestock.
(5) Subsection  (4)(b) to (d) of this section applies only if the holder of the conflicting security
interest had filed a financing statement covering the same types of livestock:
(a) If the purchase-money security interest is perfected by filing, before the date of the filing;
or
(b) If the purchase-money security interest is temporarily perfected without  filing or possession
under ORS 79.0312 (6), before the beginning of the 20-day period thereunder.
(6) Except  as otherwise provided in subsection (7) of this section, a perfected purchase-money
security interest in software has priority over a conflicting security interest in the same  collateral,
and, except as otherwise provided in ORS 79.0327,  a perfected security interest in its identifiable
proceeds  also  has priority, to the extent that the purchase-money security interest in the goods in
which the software was acquired for use has priority in the goods and proceeds of the goods under
this section.
(7) If more than one security interest qualifies for priority in  the same collateral under sub-
section (1), (2), (4) or (6) of this section:
(a) A security interest securing an obligation incurred as all or part of the price  of the collat-
eral has priority over a  security interest securing an obligation incurred for value given to enable
the debtor to acquire rights in or the use of collateral; and
(b) In all other cases, ORS 79.0322 (1) applies to the qualifying security interests.
SECTION 69a.
Section 70 of this  2025 Act is added to and made a part of ORS chapter
79.
SECTION 70. A security interest  in a controllable account, controllable electronic record
or controllable payment intangible held by a secured party  having control of the account,
electronic record or payment intangible has priority over a conflicting  security interest held
by a secured party that does not have control.
SECTION 71.  ORS 79.0330 is amended to read:
79.0330. (1) A purchaser of chattel paper has priority over  a security interest in the chattel
paper which is claimed merely as proceeds of inventory subject to a security interest if:
(a) In good faith and in the  ordinary course of the purchaser’s business, the purchaser gives new
value, [ and] takes possession of  each authoritative  tangible copy of the record evidencing the
chattel paper and obtains control under  ORS 79.0105 of each authoritative electronic copy
of the record evidencing  the chattel paper or  obtains control of the chattel paper [ under ORS
79.0105]; and
(b) [ The chattel paper does ] Authoritative copies of the record evidencing the chattel  paper
do not indicate that [ it] the chattel  paper has been assigned to an identified assignee other than
the purchaser.
(2) A purchaser  of chattel paper has priority over a security interest in the chattel paper which
is claimed other than merely as proceeds of inventory subject to a security interest if the purchaser
gives new value , [ and] takes possession of  each authoritative  tangible copy of the record evi-
dencing the chattel paper [ or] and obtains control [ of] under ORS 79.0105 of each  authoritative
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 51
electronic copy of the record evidencing the chattel  paper [ under ORS 79.0105 ] in good faith, in
the ordinary course of the purchaser’s business, and without knowledge that the purchase violates
the rights of the secured party.
(3) Except as otherwise provided in ORS 79.0327,  a purchaser having priority in chattel paper
under subsection (1) or (2) of this section also has priority in proceeds of the chattel paper  to the
extent that:
(a) ORS 79.0322 provides for priority in the proceeds; or
(b) The proceeds  consist of the specific goods covered by the chattel paper or cash proceeds of
the specific goods, even if the purchaser’s security interest in the proceeds is unperfected.
(4) Except as otherwise provided  in ORS 79.0331 (1), a purchaser of an instrument has priority
over a security interest in the instrument perfected by  a method other than possession if the pur-
chaser gives value and takes  possession of the instrument in good faith and without knowledge that
the purchase violates the rights of the secured party.
(5) For purposes of subsections (1) and (2) of this section, the holder of  a purchase-money secu-
rity interest in inventory gives new value for chattel paper constituting proceeds of the inventory.
(6) For  purposes of subsections (2) and (4) of this section, if  the authoritative copies of the
record evidencing chattel paper or  an instrument [ indicates] indicate that [ it] the chattel paper
or instrument  has  been assigned to an identified secured party other than the purchaser, a pur-
chaser of the chattel paper or instrument has knowledge that the purchase  violates the rights of the
secured party.
SECTION 72.
 ORS 79.0331 is amended to read:
79.0331. (1) This chapter  does not limit the rights of a holder in due course of a negotiable in-
strument, a holder to which a  negotiable document of title has been duly negotiated , [or] a protected
purchaser  of  a security  or a qualifying purchaser of a controllable account, controllable elec-
tronic record or  controllable payment intangible. These holders or purchasers take priority over
an earlier security interest, even if perfected, to the extent provided in ORS chapters 73,  77 and 78
and sections 94 to 100 of this 2025 Act .
(2) This chapter does not limit the rights of or impose liability on  a person to the extent that
the person  is protected against the assertion of a claim under ORS chapter 78  or sections 94 to
100 of this 2025 Act .
(3) Filing under this chapter does not constitute notice of a claim or  defense to the holders, or
purchasers, or persons described in subsections (1) and (2) of this section.
SECTION 73.  ORS 79.0332 is amended to read:
79.0332. (1) A  transferee of  tangible money takes the money free of a security interest [ unless
the transferee acts ] if the transferee receives possession of the money without acting  in
collusion with the debtor in violating the rights of the secured party.
(2) A transferee of funds from a deposit account takes the funds free of  a security interest in
the deposit account [ unless the transferee acts ] if the transferee receives the funds without act-
ing in collusion with the debtor in violating the rights of the secured party.
(3) A transferee of  electronic money takes the money free of a security interest if the
transferee obtains control of the money without acting in collusion with the debtor in vio-
lating the rights of the secured party.
SECTION 74.  ORS 79.0334 is amended to read:
79.0334. (1) A security interest under  this chapter may be created in goods that are fixtures or
may continue in goods that become  fixtures. A security interest does not exist under this chapter
in ordinary building materials incorporated into an improvement on land.
(2) This chapter does  not prevent creation of an encumbrance upon fixtures under real property
law.
(3) In cases not governed by subsections (4) to (8) of this section, a security interest  in fixtures
is subordinate to a conflicting interest  of an encumbrancer or owner of the related real property
other than the debtor.
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 52
(4) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (8) of this section, a perfected  security interest
in fixtures has priority over a conflicting interest of an encumbrancer or owner of the real property
if the debtor has an interest of record in or is in possession of the real property and:
(a) The security interest is a purchase-money security interest;
(b) The interest of the encumbrancer or owner arises before the goods become fixtures; and
(c) The security interest is perfected by a fixture filing before the  goods become fixtures or
within 20 days thereafter.
(5) A perfected security interest in fixtures  has priority over a conflicting interest of an
encumbrancer or owner of the real property if:
(a) The debtor has an interest of record in the real  property or is in possession of the real
property and the security interest:
(A) Is perfected by a fixture filing  before the interest of the encumbrancer or owner is of record;
and
(B) Has priority over any conflicting interest of a predecessor  in title of the encumbrancer or
owner;
(b) Before the  goods become fixtures, the security interest is perfected by any method permitted
by this chapter and the fixtures are readily removable:
(A) Factory or office machines;
(B) Equipment that is not primarily  used or leased for use in the operation of the real property;
or
(C) Replacements of domestic appliances that are consumer goods;
(c) The  conflicting interest is a lien on the real property obtained by legal or equitable pro-
ceedings after the security interest was perfected by any method permitted by this chapter; or
(d) The security interest is:
(A) Created in a manufactured structure in a manufactured-structure transaction; and
(B) Perfected pursuant to ORS 446.611 or by recording in a county deed record as provided in
ORS 446.626.
(6) A security interest in  fixtures, whether or not perfected, has priority over a conflicting in-
terest of an encumbrancer or owner of the real property if:
(a) The encumbrancer or owner has, in [ an authenticated] a signed  record, consented  to the se-
curity interest or disclaimed an interest in the goods as fixtures; or
(b) The debtor has a right to remove the goods as against the encumbrancer or owner.
(7) The  priority of the security interest under subsection (6)(b) of this section continues for a
reasonable  time  if the debtor’s right to remove the goods as against the encumbrancer or owner
terminates.
(8) A mortgage is a construction mortgage to the extent that it secures an  obligation incurred
for the construction of an improvement on land, including the acquisition cost of the land, if  a re-
corded  record  of the mortgage so indicates. Except as otherwise provided in subsections (5) and (6)
of this section, a security interest in fixtures is subordinate to  a construction mortgage if a record
of the  mortgage is recorded before the goods become fixtures and the goods become fixtures before
the completion of the construction. A mortgage has this priority to  the same extent as a con-
struction mortgage to the extent that it is given to refinance a construction mortgage.
(9) A perfected security interest  in crops growing on real property has priority over a conflict-
ing interest of an encumbrancer or owner of  the real property if the debtor has an interest of record
in or is in possession of the real property.
SECTION 75.
 ORS 79.0341 is amended to read:
79.0341. Except as otherwise provided in ORS 79.0340 (3), and  unless the bank otherwise agrees
in [ an authenticated] a signed  record, a bank’s rights and duties with respect to a deposit account
maintained with the bank are not terminated, suspended, or modified by:
(1) The creation, attachment or perfection of a security interest in the deposit account;
(2) The bank’s knowledge of the security interest; or
(3) The bank’s receipt of instructions from the secured party.
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 53
SECTION 76.  ORS 79.0404 is amended to read:
79.0404. (1) Unless an  account debtor has made an enforceable agreement not to assert defenses
or claims and subject to subsections (2) to (5) of this section, the rights of  an assignee are subject
to:
(a) All terms of the agreement between the account debtor  and assignor and any defense or
claim in recoupment arising from the transaction that gave rise to the contract; and
(b) Any other defense or claim of the account debtor against the  assignor which accrues before
the account debtor receives a notification of the assignment [ authenticated] signed by the  assignor
or the assignee.
(2) Subject to subsection (3) of this section and except  as otherwise provided in subsection (4)
of this section, the claim of an account debtor against  an assignor may be asserted against an
assignee under subsection (1) of this section only to reduce the amount the account debtor owes.
(3) This section is  subject to law other than this chapter which establishes a different rule for
an account debtor who is an individual  and who incurred the obligation primarily for personal,
family or household purposes.
(4) In a consumer transaction, if a record evidences the account debtor’s obligation,  law other
than this chapter requires  that the record include a statement to the effect that the account debtor’s
recovery against an assignee with respect to claims and defenses against the assignor may  not ex-
ceed amounts paid by the account debtor under the record, and the record does not include  such a
statement, the extent to which a  claim of an account debtor against the assignor may be asserted
against an assignee is determined as if the record included such a statement.
(5) This section does not apply to an assignment of a health-care-insurance receivable.
SECTION 77.
 ORS 79.0406 is amended to read:
79.0406. (1) Subject to  subsections (2) to (9)  and (11)  of this section, an account debtor on an
account, chattel paper  or a payment intangible may discharge its obligation by paying the assignor
until, but not after, the account debtor  receives a notification, [ authenticated] signed by the assignor
or the assignee, that the  amount due or to become due has been assigned and that payment is to
be made to the assignee.  After receipt of the notification, the account debtor may discharge its ob-
ligation by paying the assignee and may not discharge the obligation by paying the assignor.
(2) Subject to [ subsection (8) ] subsections (8) and (11)  of this  section, notification is ineffective
under subsection (1) of this section:
(a) If it does not reasonably identify the rights assigned;
(b) To the extent that an  agreement between an account debtor and a seller of a payment in-
tangible limits the account debtor’s duty to pay a person other than the seller and  the limitation is
effective under law other than this chapter; or
(c) At the option of an account debtor, if the notification notifies  the account debtor to make
less than the full amount of any installment or other periodic payment to the assignee, even if:
(A) Only a portion of the account,  chattel paper or payment intangible has been assigned to that
assignee;
(B) A portion has been assigned to another assignee; or
(C) The account debtor knows that the assignment to that assignee is limited.
(3) Subject  to [ subsection (8) ] subsections (8) and (11)  of this section, if requested by the ac-
count debtor, an assignee shall  seasonably furnish reasonable proof that the assignment has been
made. Unless the assignee complies, the account  debtor may discharge its obligation by paying the
assignor, even if the account debtor has received a notification under subsection (1)  of this section.
(4) In this subsection,  “promissory note” includes a negotiable instrument that evidences
chattel paper. Except as otherwise provided in subsection (5) of this section and ORS 72A.3030  and
79.0407, and subject to subsection (8) of this section, a term in an agreement  between an account
debtor and an assignor or in a promissory note is ineffective to the extent that it:
(a) Prohibits, restricts or requires the consent of the account debtor or person  obligated on the
promissory note to the assignment or transfer of, or the creation, attachment, perfection  or
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 54
enforcement of a security interest in, the account, chattel  paper, payment intangible or promissory
note; or
(b) Provides that the assignment or transfer or the  creation, attachment, perfection or enforce-
ment of the security interest may  give rise to a default, breach, right of recoupment, claim, defense,
termination, right  of termination or remedy under the account, chattel paper, payment intangible
or promissory note.
(5) Subsection (4) of this section does not apply  to the sale of a payment intangible or
promissory note, other than a sale pursuant to a disposition under ORS 79.0610 or an acceptance
of collateral under ORS 79.0620.
(6) Except as otherwise provided in ORS 72A.3030  and 79.0407 and subject to subsections (8) and
(9) of this section, a rule of law, statute or regulation that prohibits, restricts or requires  the con-
sent of a government, governmental body or official, or  account debtor to the assignment or transfer
of, or creation of a security interest  in, an account or chattel paper is ineffective to the extent that
the rule of law, statute or regulation:
(a) Prohibits, restricts  or requires the consent of the government, governmental body or official,
or account debtor to the assignment or transfer of, or  the creation, attachment, perfection or
enforcement of a security interest in the account or chattel paper; or
(b) Provides that the assignment or transfer or the  creation, attachment, perfection or enforce-
ment of the security interest may  give rise to a default, breach, right of recoupment, claim, defense,
termination, right of termination or remedy under the account or chattel paper.
(7) Subject to [ subsection (8) ] subsections (8)  and (11)  of this section, an account debtor may
not waive or vary its option under subsection (2)(c) of this section.
(8) This section is subject to law other than this chapter which establishes a  different rule for
an account debtor who is an individual and who  incurred the obligation primarily for personal,
family or household purposes.
(9)(a) This section does not apply to the assignment of a health-care-insurance receivable.
(b) Subsections (4) and (6) of this section do not apply to the assignment or transfer of, or  the
creation of a security interest  in, a claim or right to receive compensation for injuries or sickness
as described in 26 U.S.C.  104(a)(2), provided that such transaction constitutes a sale of such claim
or right. The limitation in this paragraph is intended to leave to the court  the determination of the
proper rules in such  cases. The court may not infer from that limitation the nature of the proper
rule in such cases and may continue to apply established approaches.
(c) Subsections (4) and (6) of this section do not apply to the following:
(A) The assignment or transfer of, or the creation of a security interest  in, a claim or right to
receive compensation for injuries or sickness as described in 26 U.S.C. 104(a)(1);
(B) The assignment or transfer  of, or the creation of a security interest in, a claim or right to
receive benefits under a special needs trust as described in 42 U.S.C. 1396p(d)(4); or
(C) The assignment or transfer of, or the creation, attachment,  perfection or enforcement of a
security interest in, the benefits, rights, privileges or options accruing under an  annuity policy, to
the extent that  the annuity policy provides for such a restriction and the restriction is permitted
under ORS 743.049.
(d) Subsection (6) of this section does not apply  to the assignment or transfer of, or the creation,
attachment, perfection or enforcement of a security interest in, a  right when the transfer of the
right is prohibited or restricted by ORS 147.325, 461.250 (8) or  656.234, to the extent that ORS
147.325, 461.250 (8) or 656.234 is inconsistent with subsection (6) of this section.
(10) Except to the extent otherwise provided in subsection (9) of  this section, this section pre-
vails over any inconsistent provision of an existing or future statute unless the provision refers ex-
pressly to this section and states that the provision prevails over this section.
(11) Subsections  (1), (2), (3) and (7) of this section do not apply to a controllable account
or controllable payment intangible.
SECTION 78.
 ORS 79.0408 is amended to read:
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 55
79.0408. (1) Except  as otherwise provided in subsection (2) of this section, a term in a promissory
note or in an agreement between an account debtor and  a debtor which relates to a health-care-
insurance receivable or a general  intangible, including a contract, permit, license or franchise, and
which term prohibits, restricts or requires the  consent of the person obligated on the promissory
note or the account debtor to, the assignment or transfer of, or creation, attachment  or perfection
of a security interest in, the promissory note, health-care-insurance receivable or  general intangible,
is ineffective to the extent that the term:
(a) Would impair the creation, attachment or perfection of a security interest; or
(b) Provides that the assignment or transfer or the creation, attachment or  perfection of the
security interest may give rise to a default, breach, right of  recoupment, claim, defense, termination,
right of termination or remedy under the promissory note, health-care-insurance receivable or  gen-
eral intangible.
(2) Subsection (1) of this section applies to a security interest in a  payment intangible or
promissory note only if the security interest arises out  of a sale of the payment intangible or
promissory note, other than a sale pursuant to a disposition under ORS 79.0610 or an acceptance
of collateral under ORS 79.0620.
(3) A rule of law, statute or regulation that prohibits,  restricts or requires the consent of a
government, governmental body or official, person obligated on a promissory note or account debtor
to the assignment or transfer of, or creation of a security interest in, a promissory note, health-
care-insurance receivable or general  intangible, including a contract, permit, license or franchise
between an account debtor and a debtor, is ineffective to the extent that the rule of  law, statute
or regulation:
(a) Would impair the creation, attachment or perfection of a security interest; or
(b) Provides that the  assignment or transfer or the creation, attachment or perfection of the
security interest may give rise to a default, breach, right of  recoupment, claim, defense, termination,
right of  termination or remedy under the promissory note, health-care-insurance receivable or gen-
eral intangible.
(4) To the extent that a term in a promissory note or in an  agreement between an account
debtor and a debtor which relates to a health-care-insurance receivable  or general intangible or a
rule of law, statute or regulation described in subsection (3) of this section would be effective under
law other than this chapter but is ineffective under subsection  (1) or (3) of this section, the creation,
attachment or perfection of a security interest in the promissory  note, health-care-insurance
receivable or general intangible:
(a) Is not  enforceable against the person obligated on the promissory note or the account debtor;
(b) Does not impose a duty or obligation on the person obligated on the promissory  note or the
account  debtor;
(c) Does not require the person obligated on the promissory  note or the account debtor to rec-
ognize the security interest,  pay or render performance to the secured party, or accept payment or
performance from the secured party;
(d) Does not entitle the secured party to use or assign the debtor’s  rights under the promissory
note, health-care-insurance  receivable or general intangible, including any related information or
materials furnished to  the debtor in the transaction giving rise to the promissory note, health-care-
insurance receivable or general intangible;
(e) Does not entitle the secured party to use, assign, possess  or have access to any trade secrets
or confidential information of the person obligated on the promissory note or the  account debtor;
and
(f) Does not entitle  the secured party to enforce the security interest in the promissory note,
health-care-insurance receivable or general intangible.
(5)(a) Subsections (1) and (3) of this section do not apply to the assignment or transfer of, or  the
creation of a security interest  in, a claim or right to receive compensation for injuries or sickness
as described in 26 U.S.C.  104(a)(2), provided that such transaction constitutes a sale of such claim
or right. The limitation in this paragraph is intended to leave to the court  the determination of the
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 56
proper rules in such  cases. The court may not infer from that limitation the nature of the proper
rule in such cases and may continue to apply established approaches.
(b) Subsections (1) and (3) of this section do not apply to the following:
(A) The assignment or transfer of, or the creation of a security interest  in, a claim or right to
receive compensation for injuries or sickness as described in 26 U.S.C. 104(a)(1);
(B) The assignment or transfer  of, or the creation of a security interest in, a claim or right to
receive benefits under a special needs trust as described in 42 U.S.C. 1396p(d)(4); or
(C) The assignment or transfer of, or the creation, attachment,  perfection or enforcement of a
security interest in, the benefits, rights, privileges or options accruing under an  annuity policy, to
the extent that  the annuity policy provides for such a restriction and the restriction is permitted
under ORS 743.049.
(c) Subsection (3) of this section does not apply to  the assignment or transfer of, or the creation,
attachment, perfection or enforcement of a security interest in, a  right when the transfer of the
right is prohibited or restricted by ORS 147.325, 461.250 (8) or  656.234, to the extent that ORS
147.325, 461.250 (8) or 656.234 is inconsistent with subsection (3) of this section.
(6) Except to the extent otherwise provided  in subsection (5) of this section, this section prevails
over  any  inconsistent provision of an existing or future statute unless the provision refers expressly
to this section and states that the provision prevails over this section.
(7) In this  section, “promissory note” includes a negotiable instrument that evidences
chattel paper.
SECTION 79.
 ORS 79.0509 is amended to read:
79.0509. (1) A person may file  an initial financing statement, amendment that adds collateral
covered by a financing statement, or amendment that  adds a debtor to a financing statement only
if:
(a) The debtor authorizes the filing in [ an authenticated ] a signed  record  or pursuant to sub-
section (2) or (3) of this section; or
(b) The person holds an agricultural lien that has become effective at the time  of filing and the
financing statement covers only collateral in which the person holds an agricultural lien.
(2) By [ authenticating] signing or becoming bound as debtor by a security agreement, a debtor
or new debtor authorizes the filing of an initial financing statement, and an amendment, covering:
(a) The collateral described in the security agreement; and
(b) Property that becomes collateral under ORS 79.0315 (1)(b), whether or not  the security
agreement expressly covers proceeds.
(3) By acquiring collateral in which a security interest or agricultural  lien continues under ORS
79.0315 (1)(a), a debtor  authorizes the filing of an initial financing statement, and an amendment,
covering the collateral and property that becomes collateral under ORS 79.0315 (1)(b).
(4) A person may file an amendment other than an amendment that adds collateral  covered by
a financing statement or an amendment that adds a debtor to a financing statement only if:
(a) The secured party of record authorizes the filing; or
(b) The amendment is a termination statement for a financing  statement as to which the secured
party of record has failed to file or send a termination statement as required by ORS  79.0513 (1) or
(3), the  debtor authorizes the filing, and the termination statement indicates that the debtor au-
thorized it to be filed.
(5) If there is more  than one secured party of record for a financing statement, each secured
party of record may authorize the filing of an amendment under subsection (4) of this section.
SECTION 80.
 ORS 79.0513 is amended to read:
79.0513. (1) A secured party shall  cause the secured party of record for a financing statement
to file a termination statement for the financing statement  if the financing statement covers con-
sumer goods and:
(a) There is no  obligation secured by the collateral covered by the financing statement and no
commitment to make an advance, incur an obligation, or otherwise give value; or
(b) The debtor did not authorize the filing of the initial financing statement.
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 57
(2) To comply  with subsection (1) of this section, a secured party shall cause the secured party
of record to file the termination statement:
(a) Within one month  after there is no obligation secured by the collateral covered by the fi-
nancing statement and no commitment  to make an advance, incur an obligation or otherwise give
value; or
(b) If earlier, within 20 days after the secured party  receives [ an authenticated] a signed demand
from a debtor.
(3) In cases not governed by subsection (1) of this section, within 20 days after a secured  party
receives [ an authenticated] a signed demand from a debtor, the secured party shall cause the secured
party of record for a  financing statement to send to the debtor a termination statement for the fi-
nancing statement or file the termination statement in the filing office if:
(a) Except in the case of a financing statement  covering accounts or chattel paper that has been
sold or goods that are the subject  of a consignment, there is no obligation secured by the collateral
covered by the financing statement and no commitment  to make an advance, incur an obligation,
or otherwise give value;
(b) The financing statement covers accounts or chattel paper that has been sold but as  to which
the account debtor or other person obligated has discharged its obligation;
(c) The financing statement covers goods that were the subject of  a consignment to the debtor
but are not in the debtor’s possession; or
(d) The debtor did not authorize the filing of the initial financing statement.
(4) Except as otherwise provided in ORS 79.0510,  upon the filing of a termination statement with
the filing  office, the financing statement to which the termination statement relates ceases to be
effective. Except as otherwise provided in  ORS 79.0510, for purposes of ORS 79.0519 (7), 79.0522 (1)
and 79.0523 (3), the filing with the filing office of a termination  statement relating to a financing
statement that indicates that the  debtor is a transmitting utility also causes the effectiveness of the
financing statement to lapse.
SECTION 81.
 ORS 79.0601 is amended to read:
79.0601. (1) After default, a secured party has the rights provided in ORS  79.0601 to 79.0628 and,
except  as  otherwise provided in ORS 79.0602, those provided by agreement of the parties. A secured
party:
(a) May reduce a claim to judgment, foreclose, or otherwise enforce  the claim, security interest
or agricultural lien by any available judicial procedure; and
(b) If the collateral is documents, may proceed either as to the documents or as to the  goods
they cover.
(2) A secured party in possession of collateral or control of collateral under ORS 77.1060,
79.0104, 79.0105, 79.0106 or 79.0107  or section 47 or 48  of this 2025 Act  has the rights and duties
provided in ORS 79.0207.
(3) The rights under subsections (1) and (2) of  this section are cumulative and may be exercised
simultaneously.
(4) Except  as otherwise provided in subsection (7) of this section and ORS 79.0605, after default,
a debtor  and an obligor have the rights provided in ORS 79.0601 to 79.0628 and by agreement of the
parties.
(5) If a secured party has reduced its claim to judgment, the lien of any levy that  may be made
upon the collateral by virtue  of an execution based upon the judgment relates back to the earliest
of:
(a) The date of perfection of the security interest or agricultural lien in the collateral;
(b) The date of filing a financing statement covering the collateral; or
(c) Any date specified in a statute under which the agricultural lien was created.
(6) A sale pursuant to an execution is a foreclosure of the security interest or agricultural  lien
by judicial procedure within the meaning of this section. A secured party may purchase at the sale
and thereafter hold the collateral free of any other requirements of this chapter.
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 58
(7) Except as otherwise provided in ORS 79.0607 (3), ORS 79.0601 to 79.0628 impose no  duties
upon a secured party that is a consignor or is a buyer of accounts, chattel  paper, payment intangi-
bles or promissory notes.
SECTION 82.  ORS 79.0605 is amended to read:
79.0605. (1) Except as  provided in subsection (2) of this section,  a secured party does not
owe a duty based on its status as secured party:
[(1)] (a)  To a person that is a debtor or obligor, unless the secured party knows:
[(a)] (A)  That the person is a debtor or obligor;
[(b)] (B)  The identity of the person; and
[(c)] (C) How to communicate with the person; or
[(2)] (b) To a secured party or lienholder that has filed a financing statement  against a person,
unless the secured party knows:
[(a)] (A)  That the person is a debtor; and
[(b)] (B)  The identity of the person.
(2) A secured party owes a duty based on its status as a secured party to a person if,  at
the time the secured  party obtains control of collateral that is a controllable account, con-
trollable electronic record or controllable payment intangible or at the time the  security in-
terest attaches to the collateral, whichever is later:
(a) The person is a debtor or obligor; and
(b) The secured party knows  that the information in subsection (1)(a) of this section re-
lating to the person is not provided by the collateral, a  record attached to or logically asso-
ciated with the collateral or the system in which the collateral is recorded.
SECTION 83.
 ORS 79.0608 is amended to read:
79.0608. (1) If a security interest  or agricultural lien secures payment or performance of an ob-
ligation, the following rules apply:
(a) A secured party  shall apply or pay over for application the cash proceeds of collection or
enforcement under ORS 79.0607 in the following order to:
(A) The  reasonable expenses of collection and enforcement and, to the extent provided for by
agreement and not prohibited by law, reasonable attorney fees and legal  expenses incurred by the
secured party;
(B) The satisfaction of obligations secured by the security interest or agricultural lien under
which the collection or enforcement is made; and
(C) The satisfaction of obligations secured by any subordinate security interest in or other  lien
on the collateral subject to the security interest or agricultural lien under  which the collection or
enforcement is made if the secured  party receives [ an authenticated] a signed  demand for proceeds
before distribution of the proceeds is completed.
(b) If requested by  a secured party, a holder of a subordinate security interest or other lien shall
furnish reasonable proof of the interest or lien within a reasonable time. Unless the holder  com-
plies, the secured party need not comply with the holder’s demand under  paragraph (a)(C) of this
subsection.
(c) A secured party need not apply or  pay over for application noncash proceeds of collection
and enforcement under ORS 79.0607 unless the failure  to do so would be commercially unreasonable.
A secured party that applies or pays over for application noncash proceeds shall do so in a com-
mercially reasonable manner.
(d) A  secured party shall account to and pay a debtor for any surplus, and the obligor is liable
for any deficiency.
(2) If the underlying transaction is a  sale of accounts, chattel paper, payment intangibles or
promissory notes, the debtor is not entitled to any surplus  and the obligor is not liable for any de-
ficiency.
SECTION 84.
 ORS 79.0611 is amended to read:
79.0611. (1) As used in this section, “notification date” means the earlier of the date on which:
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 59
(a) A secured party sends to the debtor and any secondary obligor [ an authenticated] a  signed
notification of disposition; or
(b) The debtor and any secondary obligor waive the right to notification.
(2) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (4) of this section, a secured party that disposes
of collateral under ORS 79.0610 shall send to the persons  specified in subsection (3) of this section
a reasonable [ authenticated] signed notification of disposition.
(3) To comply with subsection (2) of  this section, the secured party shall send [ an
authenticated] a signed  notification of disposition to:
(a) The debtor;
(b) Any secondary obligor; and
(c) If the collateral is other than consumer goods:
(A) Any other person from which the secured party has  received, before the notification date,
[an authenticated] a signed  notification of a claim of an interest in the collateral;
(B) Any  other secured party or lienholder that, 10 days before the notification date, held a se-
curity interest in or other lien on the  collateral perfected by the filing of a financing statement that:
(i) Identified the collateral;
(ii) Was indexed under the debtor’s name as of that date; and
(iii) Was filed in the office in which to  file a financing statement against the debtor covering the
collateral as of that date; and
(C) Any other secured party that, 10 days before the notification date, held a security  interest
in the collateral perfected  by compliance with a statute, regulation or treaty described in ORS
79.0311 (1).
(4) Subsection (2) of  this section does not apply if the collateral is perishable or threatens to
decline speedily in value or is of a type customarily sold on a recognized market.
(5) A  secured party complies with the requirement for notification prescribed by subsection
(3)(c)(B) of this section if:
(a) Not later than 20 days or earlier than 30 days before the notification  date, the secured party
requests, in a commercially reasonable manner, information concerning financing statements indexed
under the debtor’s name in the office indicated in subsection (3)(c)(B) of this section; and
(b) Before the notification date, the secured party:
(A) Did not receive a response to the request for information; or
(B) Received a response  to the request for information and sent [ an authenticated] a signed  no-
tification of disposition to each secured party or  other lienholder named in that response whose fi-
nancing statement covered the collateral.
SECTION 85.
 ORS 79.0613 is amended to read:
79.0613. Except in a consumer-goods transaction, the following rules apply:
(1) The contents of a notification of disposition are sufficient if the notification:
(a) Indicates the name of the debtor and the name, address and  telephone number of the secured
party;
(b) Describes the collateral that is the subject of the intended disposition;
(c) States the method of intended disposition;
(d) States that the debtor is entitled to  an accounting of the unpaid indebtedness and states the
charge, if any, for an accounting; and
(e) States the  time and place of a public disposition or the time after which any other disposition
is to be made.
(2) Whether  the contents of a notification that lacks any of the information specified in sub-
section (1) of this section are nevertheless sufficient is a question of fact.
(3) The contents of a notification providing substantially  the information specified in subsection
(1) of this section are sufficient, even if the notification includes:
(a) Information not specified by subsection (1) of this section; or
(b) Minor errors that are not seriously misleading.
(4) A particular phrasing of the notification is not required.
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 60
(5) The  following form of notification and the form appearing in ORS 79.0614 (3), when completed
in accordance with the instructions in subsection (6) of this section , provide  sufficient infor-
mation:
[ ___________________________________________________________________________________ ]
NOTIFICATION OF DISPOSITION OF COLLATERAL
To: (Name of debtor, obligor or other person to which the notification is sent.)
From: (Name, address and telephone number of secured party.)
Name of Debtor(s): (Include only if debtor(s) are not an addressee.)
For a public disposition:
We will sell or lease or  license, as applicable the (describe collateral ) to the highest qualified bid-
der in public as follows:
Day and date: 
Time: 
Place: 
For a private disposition:
We will  sell or lease or license, as applicable the (describe collateral ) privately sometime after (day
and date ).
You are entitled to an accounting of the unpaid indebtedness secured by the property that we intend
to sell or lease or license, as applicable for  a charge of $ . You may request an accounting by
calling us at (telephone number).
[ ___________________________________________________________________________________ ]
NOTIFICATION OF DISPOSITION OF COLLATERAL
To: (Name of debtor, obligor or other person to which the notification is sent.)
From: (Name, address and telephone number of secured party.)
{1} Name of any debtor that is not an addressee: (Name of each debtor)
{2} We  will sell (describe collateral) (to the highest qualified bidder) at public sale. A sale
could include a lease or license. The sale will be held as follows:
(Date) 
(Time) 
(Place) 
{3} We will sell (describe collateral) at  private sale sometime after (date)
. A sale could include a lease or license.
{4} You are entitled  to an accounting of the unpaid indebtedness secured by the property
that we intend to sell or, as applicable, lease or license.
{5} If you request an accounting you must pay a charge of $  (amount).
{6} You may request an accounting by calling us at (telephone number) .
(6) The following instructions apply to the form of notification in subsection (5) of this
section:
(a) The instructions in this subsection refer to the numbers in  braces before items in the
form of notification in  subsection (5) of this section. Do not include the numbers or braces
in the notification. The numbers and braces are used only for the  purpose of these in-
structions.
(b) Include and complete item {1} only if there is a debtor that is not an addressee of the
notification and list the name or names.
(c) Include and complete either item  {2}, if the notification relates to a public disposition
of the collateral,  or item {3}, if the notification relates to a private disposition of the collat-
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 61
eral. If item {2} is included, include the words “to the highest qualified bidder” only if  appli-
cable.
(d) Include and complete items {4} and {6}.
(e) Include and complete item {5} only if the sender will charge the recipient for an ac-
counting.
SECTION 86.
 ORS 79.0614 is amended to read:
79.0614. In a consumer-goods transaction, the following rules apply:
(1) A notification of disposition must provide the following information:
(a) The information specified in ORS 79.0613 (1);
(b) A description of any liability for a deficiency  of the person to which the notification is sent;
(c) A  telephone number from which the amount that must be paid to the secured party to redeem
the collateral under ORS 79.0623 is available; and
(d) A telephone number or mailing address from which additional information concerning the
disposition and the obligation secured is available.
(2) A particular phrasing of the notification is not required.
(3) The following form of notification, when completed  in  accordance with the instructions
in subsection (4) of this section , provides sufficient information:
[ ___________________________________________________________________________________ ]
(Name and address of secured party
)
(Date)
NOTICE OF OUR PLAN
TO SELL PROPERTY
(Name and address of any obligor who is also a debtor )
Subject: (Identification of Transaction )
We have your (describe collateral ), because you broke promises in our agreement.
For a public disposition:
We will sell (describe collateral ) at public sale. A sale could  include a lease or license. The sale
will be held as follows:
Day and date: 
Time: 
Place: 
You may attend the sale and bring bidders if you want.
For a private disposition:
We will sell (describe collateral ) at private sale sometime after (date ). A sale could include a lease
or license.
The money that we get from the sale, after  paying our costs, will reduce the amount you owe. If
we get less money than you owe, you (will or will not, as applicable ) still owe us the difference. If
we get more money than you  owe, you will get the extra money, unless we must pay it to someone else.
You can get  the property back at any time before we sell it by paying us the full amount you owe
(not just the past due  payments), including our expenses. To learn the exact amount you must pay, call
us at (telephone number ).
If you want us to explain to you in writing how we  have figured the amount that you owe us, you
may call us at (telephone  number ) or write us at (secured party’s address ) and request a written ex-
planation. We will charge you $  for the explanation if we sent you another written  explanation
of the amount you owe us within the last six months.
If you need more information about the sale call  us at (telephone number ) or write us at (secured
party’s address ).
We are sending this notice to the following other people who have an interest in (describe
collateral) or who owe money under your agreement:
(Names of all other debtors and obligors, if any. )
[ ___________________________________________________________________________________ ]
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 62
[(4) A notification in the form of subsection (3) of this  section is sufficient, even if the form includes
additional information.]
[(5) A notification in the form of subsection (3) of this section is sufficient, even  if it includes minor
errors in information not required by subsection (1) of this  section, unless the error is seriously mis-
leading.]
[(6) If a notification under this section is not in the form of subsection (3) of this section, law other
than this chapter determines the effect of including information  not required by subsection (1) of this
section.]
(Name and address of secured party )
(Date)
NOTICE OF OUR PLAN
TO SELL PROPERTY
(Name and address of any obligor who is also a debtor )
Subject: (Identify Transaction )
We have your (describe collateral ), because you broke promises in our agreement.
{1} We will sell (describe collateral ) at public sale. A sale could include a lease or  license.
The sale will be held as follows:
Date: 
Time: 
Place: 
You may attend the sale and bring bidders if you want.
{2} We will  sell (describe collateral
) at private sale sometime after (date ). A sale could
include a lease or license.
{3} The money that we get from the sale, after paying our  costs, will reduce the amount
you owe. If we get less money than you owe, you (will or will not, as applicable ) still owe  us
the difference. If we get more money than you owe, you will get the extra money,  unless
we must pay it to someone else.
{4} You can get the property back at any time  before we sell it by paying us the full
amount you owe, not just the past  due payments, including our expenses. To learn the exact
amount you must pay, call us at (telephone number ).
{5} If you want  us to explain to you in (writing ) (writing or in  (description of electronic
record)) (description of electronic record )) how  we have figured the amount that you owe
us, {6} (call us at  (telephone number)) (or) (write us at  (secured party’s address)) (or contact
us by (description of electronic communication method )) {7} and request (a written  explana-
tion) (a written explanation or an  explanation in  (description of electronic record )) (an ex-
planation in (description of electronic record )).
{8} We  will charge you $  (amount) for the explanation if we sent you another
written explanation of the amount you owe us within the last six months.
{9} If  you need more information about the sale (call us at  (telephone number )) (or)
(write us at  (secured party’s address )) (or contact us by  (description of electronic  commu-
nication method)).
{10} We are sending this notice to the  following other people who have an interest in
(describe collateral) or who owe money under your agreement:
(Names of all other debtors and obligors, if any. )
(4) The following instructions apply to the form of notification in subsection (3) of this
section:
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 63
(a) The instructions in this subsection refer to the numbers in  braces before items in the
form of notification in  subsection (3) of this section. Do not include the numbers or braces
in the notification. The numbers and braces are used only for the  purpose of these in-
structions.
(b) Include and complete either  item {1}, if the notification relates to a public disposition
of the collateral,  or item {2}, if the notification relates to a private disposition of the collat-
eral.
(c) Include and complete items {3}, {4}, {5}, {6} and {7}.
(d) In item {5}, include and  complete any one of three alternative methods for the ex-
planation: writing, writing or electronic record, or electronic record.
(e) In item {6}, include the  telephone number. In addition, the sender may include and
complete either or both of  the two additional alternative methods of communication, writing
or electronic communication, for the  recipient of the notification to communicate with the
sender. Neither of the two additional methods of communication is required to be included.
(f) In item {7}, include  and complete the method or methods for the explanation included
in item {5}: writing, writing or electronic record, or electronic record.
(g) Include and complete  item {8} only if a written explanation is included in item {5} as
a method for communicating the explanation  and the sender will charge the recipient for
another written explanation.
(h) In item {9}, include either the telephone number or the address or  both the telephone
number and the address. In addition, the sender may include  and complete the additional
method of communication, electronic communication, for the recipient of the notification  to
communicate with the sender. The additional method of electronic communication is not
required to be included.
(i) If item {10} does not apply, insert “None” after “agreement:”.
SECTION 87.
 ORS 79.0615 is amended to read:
79.0615. (1) A secured party shall apply or pay  over for application the cash proceeds of dispo-
sition under ORS 79.0610 in the following order to:
(a) The reasonable expenses of retaking, holding, preparing for  disposition, processing and dis-
posing, and, to  the extent provided for by agreement and not prohibited by law, reasonable attorney
fees and legal expenses incurred by the secured party;
(b) The satisfaction of obligations secured  by the security interest or agricultural lien under
which the disposition is made;
(c) The satisfaction of obligations secured by any subordinate security interest  in or other sub-
ordinate lien on the collateral if:
(A) The secured party receives from the holder of the subordinate  security interest or other lien
[an authenticated ] a signed  demand for proceeds before distribution of  the proceeds is completed;
and
(B) In a case in which a consignor has an interest in  the collateral, the subordinate security
interest or other lien is senior to the interest of the consignor; and
(d) A secured party that is a consignor of the collateral if  the secured party receives from the
consignor [ an authenticated ] a signed  demand for proceeds before distribution of the proceeds is
completed.
(2) If requested by a  secured party, a holder of a subordinate security interest or other lien shall
furnish reasonable  proof of the interest or lien within a reasonable time. Unless the holder does
so, the secured party need not comply with the holder’s demand  under subsection (1)(c) of this sec-
tion.
(3) A secured party need not apply or pay  over for application noncash proceeds of disposition
under ORS 79.0610 unless the failure to do so would be commercially unreasonable. A secured  party
that applies or pays over  for application noncash proceeds shall do so in a commercially reasonable
manner.
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 64
(4) If the security interest under which  a disposition is made secures payment or performance
of an obligation, after making the payments and  applications required by subsection (1) of this sec-
tion and permitted by subsection (3) of this section:
(a) Unless subsection (1)(d) of this section requires the secured party to apply or  pay over cash
proceeds to a consignor, the secured party shall account to and pay a debtor for any surplus; and
(b) The obligor is liable for any deficiency.
(5) If the underlying transaction is a sale of  accounts, chattel paper, payment intangibles or
promissory notes:
(a) The debtor is not entitled to any surplus; and
(b) The obligor is not liable for any deficiency.
(6) The surplus or deficiency following a disposition is calculated based  on the amount of pro-
ceeds that would have been realized in a  disposition complying with ORS 79.0601 to 79.0628 to a
transferee other than  the secured party, a person related to the secured party, or a secondary
obligor if:
(a) The transferee in the disposition is  the secured party, a person related to the secured party,
or a secondary obligor; and
(b) The amount of proceeds of the disposition is significantly below the range of proceeds  that
a complying disposition to a person other than the  secured party, a person related to the secured
party, or a secondary obligor would have brought.
(7) A secured party that receives  cash proceeds of a disposition in good faith and without
knowledge that the receipt violates the rights of the holder of a security interest  or other lien that
is not subordinate to the security interest or agricultural lien under which the disposition is made:
(a) Takes the cash proceeds free of the security interest or other lien;
(b) Is  not obligated to apply the proceeds of the disposition to the satisfaction of obligations
secured by the security interest or other lien; and
(c) Is not obligated to account to or pay the holder of the security interest or other lien for any
surplus.
SECTION 88.
 ORS 79.0616 is amended to read:
79.0616. (1) As used in this section:
(a) “Explanation” means a [ writing] record that:
(A) States the amount of the surplus or deficiency;
(B) Provides an explanation in accordance with subsection (3) of this section of  how the secured
party calculated the surplus or deficiency;
(C) States, if  applicable, that future debits, credits, charges, including additional credit service
charges or interest, rebates and expenses may affect the amount of the surplus or deficiency; and
(D) Provides a  telephone number or mailing address from which additional information con-
cerning the transaction is available.
(b) “Request” means a record:
(A) [ Authenticated] Signed by a debtor or consumer obligor;
(B) Requesting that the recipient provide an explanation; and
(C) Sent after disposition of the collateral under ORS 79.0610.
(2) In a consumer-goods transaction in which the debtor is entitled  to a surplus or a consumer
obligor is liable for a deficiency under ORS 79.0615, the secured party shall:
(a) Send an explanation to the  debtor or consumer obligor, as applicable, after the disposition
and:
(A) Before  or when the secured party accounts to the debtor and pays any surplus or first makes
[written] demand  in a record  on the consumer obligor after the disposition for payment of the defi-
ciency; and
(B) Within 14 days after receipt of a request; or
(b) In the case of a consumer obligor who is  liable for a deficiency, within 14 days after receipt
of a request,  send to the consumer obligor a record waiving the secured party’s right to a deficiency.
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 65
(3) To comply with subsection (1)(a)(B) of this section, [ a writing ] an explanation must provide
the following information in the following order:
(a) The aggregate amount of obligations secured by the security interest under  which the dis-
position was made,  and, if the amount reflects a rebate of unearned interest or credit service charge,
an indication of that fact, calculated as of a specified date:
(A) If the secured party takes or receives  possession of the collateral after default, not more
than 35 days before the secured party takes or receives possession; or
(B) If the secured party takes or receives  possession of the collateral before default or does not
take possession of the collateral, not more than 35 days before the disposition;
(b) The amount of proceeds of the disposition;
(c) The aggregate amount of the obligations after deducting the amount of proceeds;
(d) The amount,  in the aggregate or by type, and types of expenses, including expenses of re-
taking, holding, preparing for disposition, processing and disposing  of the collateral, and attorney
fees secured by the collateral which are known to the secured party and  relate to the current dis-
position;
(e) The amount, in the  aggregate or by type, and types of credits, including rebates of interest
or credit service charges, to which  the obligor is known to be entitled and which are not reflected
in the amount in paragraph (a) of this subsection; and
(f) The amount of the surplus or deficiency.
(4) A particular phrasing of the explanation is  not required. An explanation complying sub-
stantially with the requirements of subsection (1) of this section  is sufficient, even if it includes
minor errors that are not seriously misleading.
(5) A debtor or consumer obligor is entitled without charge to one response to a request  under
this section during any six-month period  in which the secured party did not send to the debtor or
consumer obligor an explanation pursuant to  subsection (2)(a) of this section. The secured party may
require payment of a charge not exceeding $25 for each additional response.
SECTION 89.
 ORS 79.0619 is amended to read:
79.0619. (1) As used in  this section, “transfer statement” means a record [ authenticated] signed
by a secured party stating:
(a) That the debtor has defaulted in  connection with an obligation secured by specified collat-
eral;
(b) That the secured party  has exercised its post-default remedies with respect to the collateral;
(c) That, by reason of  the exercise, a transferee has acquired the rights of the debtor in the
collateral; and
(d) The name and mailing address of the secured party, debtor and transferee.
(2) A transfer statement entitles the transferee to the transfer of record of  all rights of the
debtor in the collateral specified in the statement in any official system  for filing, recording or
registration covering the collateral or in accordance  with the provisions of ORS 79.0311 (2), 446.611
or 446.626. If a transfer statement is presented with the applicable fee and request form to the offi-
cial or office responsible for maintaining the system, the official or office shall:
(a) Accept the transfer statement;
(b) Promptly amend its records to reflect the transfer; and
(c) If applicable, issue a new appropriate certificate of title in the name of the transferee.
(3) A transfer of the record or legal title to collateral to a  secured party under subsection (2)
of this section or otherwise is not of itself a disposition of collateral under  this chapter and does
not of itself relieve the secured party of its duties under this chapter.
SECTION 90.
 ORS 79.0620 is amended to read:
79.0620. (1) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (7)  of this section, a secured party may
accept collateral in full or partial satisfaction of the obligation it secures only if:
(a) The debtor consents to the acceptance under subsection (3) of this section;
(b) The secured party does not receive,  within the time set forth in subsection (4) of this section,
a notification of objection to the proposal [ authenticated] signed by:
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 66
(A) A person to which the secured party was required to send a  proposal under ORS 79.0621;
or
(B) Any  other person, other than the debtor, holding an interest in the collateral subordinate
to the security interest that is the subject of the proposal;
(c) If the collateral is consumer goods, the collateral is not in the possession of  the debtor when
the debtor consents to the acceptance; and
(d) Subsection (5) of this section does not require the secured party to dispose of  the collateral
or the debtor waives the requirement pursuant to ORS 79.0624.
(2) A purported or apparent acceptance of collateral under this section is ineffective unless:
(a) The secured party consents to the  acceptance in [ an authenticated] a signed record or sends
a proposal to the debtor; and
(b) The conditions of subsection (1) of this section are met.
(3) For purposes of this section:
(a) A debtor consents to an acceptance of  collateral in partial satisfaction of the obligation it
secures only if the debtor  agrees to the terms of the acceptance in a record [ authenticated] signed
after default; and
(b) A debtor consents to  an acceptance of collateral in full satisfaction of the obligation it se-
cures only if the debtor agrees to  the terms of the acceptance in a record [ authenticated] signed
after default or the secured party:
(A) Sends to the debtor after default a proposal that is unconditional or  subject only to a con-
dition that collateral not in the possession of the secured party be preserved or maintained;
(B) In the proposal,  proposes to accept collateral in full satisfaction of the obligation it secures;
and
(C) Does not receive a  notification of objection [ authenticated] signed by the debtor within 20
days after the proposal is sent.
(4) To be effective  under subsection (1)(b) of this section, a notification of objection must be
received by the secured party:
(a) In the case of a  person to which the proposal was sent pursuant to ORS 79.0621, within 20
days after notification was sent to that person; and
(b) In other cases:
(A) Within 20 days after the last notification was sent pursuant to ORS 79.0621; or
(B) If a notification was not sent, before the debtor consents to  the acceptance under subsection
(3) of this section.
(5) A secured party that has taken possession of collateral shall dispose of  the collateral pur-
suant to ORS 79.0610 within the time specified in subsection (6) of this section if:
(a) Sixty percent of the cash price has been paid  in the case of a purchase-money security in-
terest in consumer goods; or
(b) Sixty percent of the principal amount of the obligation secured has been paid in the case  of
a non-purchase-money security interest in consumer goods.
(6) To comply with subsection  (5) of this section, the secured party shall dispose of the collat-
eral:
(a) Within 180 days after taking possession; or
(b) Within any longer period to which the debtor  and all secondary obligors have agreed in an
agreement to that effect entered into and [ authenticated] signed after default.
(7) In a consumer transaction, a secured party  may not accept collateral in partial satisfaction
of the obligation it secures.
SECTION 91.
 ORS 79.0621 is amended to read:
79.0621. (1) A secured party that desires to accept collateral in full or partial satisfaction of the
obligation it secures shall send its proposal to:
(a) Any person from which the secured party has received, before the  debtor consented to the
acceptance, [ an authenticated] a signed  notification of a claim of an interest in the collateral;
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 67
(b) Any other secured party  or lienholder that, 10 days before the debtor consented to the ac-
ceptance, held a security interest in  or other lien on the collateral perfected by the filing of a fi-
nancing statement that:
(A) Identified the collateral;
(B) Was indexed under the debtor’s name as of that date; and
(C) Was filed in the office or offices in which to file a  financing statement against the debtor
covering the collateral as of that date; and
(c) Any other secured party that, 10 days before  the debtor consented to the acceptance, held
a security interest in the collateral perfected by compliance  with a statute, regulation or treaty
described in ORS 79.0311 (1).
(2) A secured party that desires to accept collateral  in partial satisfaction of the obligation it
secures shall send its proposal to any secondary obligor in addition to the persons  described in
subsection (1) of this section.
SECTION 92.
 ORS 79.0624 is amended to read:
79.0624. (1) A debtor or secondary obligor may waive the right to notification of disposition of
collateral under ORS 79.0611  only by an agreement to that effect entered into and [ authenticated]
signed after default.
(2) A debtor may waive the right to require disposition  of collateral under ORS 79.0620 (5) only
by an agreement to that effect entered into and [ authenticated] signed after default.
(3) Except in a consumer-goods transaction, a debtor or  secondary obligor may waive the right
to redeem collateral under  ORS 79.0623 only by an agreement to that effect entered into and
[authenticated] signed after default.
SECTION 93.  ORS 79.0628 is amended to read:
79.0628. (1) [ Unless] Subject to subsection (6) of  this section,  a secured party knows that a
person is  a debtor or obligor, knows the identity of the person and knows how to communicate with
the person:
(a) The secured party is not liable to  the person, or to a secured party or lienholder that has
filed a financing statement against the person, for failure to comply with this chapter; and
(b) The  secured party’s failure to comply with this chapter does not affect the liability of the
person for a deficiency.
(2) Subject to subsection (6) of this section,  a secured party  is not liable because of its status
as secured party:
(a) To a person that is a debtor or obligor, unless the secured party knows:
(A) That the person is a debtor or obligor;
(B) The identity of the person; and
(C) How to communicate with the person; or
(b) To a secured party or lienholder  that has filed a financing statement against a person, unless
the secured party knows:
(A) That the person is a debtor; and
(B) The identity of the person.
(3) A secured party is not liable to any  person, and a person’s liability for a deficiency is not
affected, because of  any act or omission arising out of the secured party’s reasonable belief that a
transaction is not a consumer-goods transaction or  a consumer transaction or that goods are not
consumer goods, if the secured party’s belief is based on its reasonable reliance on:
(a) A debtor’s representation concerning the purpose for which  collateral was to be used, ac-
quired or held; or
(b) An obligor’s representation concerning the purpose for which a secured obligation was in-
curred.
(4) A secured party is not liable to any person under ORS 79.0625 (3)(b) for its failure to comply
with ORS 79.0616.
(5) A secured party is not liable under ORS 79.0625 (3)(b) more than once  with respect to any
one secured obligation.
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 68
(6) Subsections (1) and  (2) of this section do not apply to limit the liability of a secured
party to a person if, at the  time the secured party obtains control of collateral that is a
controllable account, controllable electronic record or controllable payment intangible or  at
the time the security interest attaches to the collateral, whichever is later:
(a) The person is a debtor or obligor; and
(b) The secured party knows  that the information in subsection (2)(a) of this section re-
lating to the person is not provided by the collateral, a  record attached to or logically asso-
ciated with the collateral or the system in which the collateral is recorded.
NEW UCC ARTICLE 12
SECTION 93a.
Sections 94 to 100 of this  2025 Act are added to and made a part of the
Uniform Commercial Code.
SECTION 94. Sections 94 to 100 of this 2025 Act may be cited as Uniform  Commercial
Code-Controllable Electronic Records.
SECTION 95. (1) In sections 94 to 100 of this 2025 Act:
(a)(A) “Controllable electronic record” means a record stored in an electronic medium
that can be subjected to control under section 98 of this 2025 Act.
(B) “Controllable electronic record” does not include a controllable  account, a controlla-
ble payment intangible, a deposit account, an electronic copy of a record evidencing  chattel
paper, an electronic document of title, electronic money, investment property or a
transferable record.
(b) “Qualifying purchaser” means  a purchaser of a controllable electronic record or an
interest in a controllable  electronic record that obtains control of the controllable electronic
record for value, in good faith  and without notice of a claim of a property right in the con-
trollable electronic record.
(c) “Transferable record” has the meaning given that term in:
(A) Section 201(a)(1) of the  Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act,
15 U.S.C. 7021(a)(1), as in effect on the effective date of this 2025 Act; or
(B) ORS 84.046.
(d) “Value” has the meaning given that term in ORS 73.0303, as if references  in that
section to an  “instrument” were references to a controllable account, controllable electronic
record or controllable payment intangible.
(2) The definitions in ORS chapter 79 of “account debtor,” “controllable account,”  “con-
trollable payment intangible,” “chattel paper,” “deposit account,” “electronic money” and
“investment property” apply to sections 94 to 100 of this 2025 Act.
(3) ORS chapter 71 contains general  definitions and principles of construction and inter-
pretation applicable throughout sections 94 to 100 of this 2025 Act.
SECTION 96.
(1) If there is a conflict between sections 94 to 100  of this 2025 Act and ORS
chapter 79, ORS chapter 79 governs.
(2) A transaction subject to sections 94 to 100 of this 2025 Act  is subject to any applicable
rule of law that establishes a different rule for consumers.
SECTION 97. (1) This section applies to the acquisition and purchase of rights in a con-
trollable account or  controllable payment intangible, including the rights and benefits under
subsections (3), (4),  (5) and (8) of this section of a purchaser and qualifying purchaser, in the
same manner this section applies to a controllable electronic record.
(2) To determine whether a purchaser of  a controllable account or controllable payment
intangible is a qualifying purchaser, the  purchaser obtains control of the account or payment
intangible if it obtains control  of the controllable electronic record that evidences the ac-
count or payment intangible.
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 69
(3) Except as provided in this section,  law other than sections 94 to 100 of this 2025 Act
determines whether a person acquires  a right in a controllable electronic record and the
right the person acquires.
(4) A purchaser of a  controllable electronic record acquires all rights in the controllable
electronic record that the transferor had or had power to  transfer, except that a purchaser
of a limited interest in a controllable  electronic record acquires rights only to the extent of
the interest purchased.
(5) A qualifying purchaser  acquires its rights in the controllable electronic record free
of a claim of a property right in the controllable electronic record.
(6) Except as provided in subsections (1) and (5) of this section for a controllable account
and a  controllable payment intangible or law other than sections 94 to 100 of this 2025 Act,
a qualifying purchaser takes a right to payment, right to performance or other interest in
property evidenced by the controllable electronic record subject to a claim  of a property
right in the right to payment, right to performance or other interest in property.
(7) An action may not be asserted against a qualifying purchaser based  on both a pur-
chase by  the qualifying purchaser of a controllable electronic record and a claim of a prop-
erty right in another  controllable electronic record, whether the action is framed in
conversion, replevin, constructive trust, equitable lien or other theory.
(8) Filing of a financing statement under ORS chapter 79 is not notice of a claim  of
property right in a controllable electronic record.
SECTION 98. (1) A person has control of a controllable electronic record if the  electronic
record, a record attached to or logically associated with the electronic record  or a system
in which the electronic record is recorded:
(a) Gives the person:
(A) Power to avail itself of substantially all of the benefit from the  electronic record; and
(B) Exclusive power, subject to subsection (2) of this section, to:
(i) Prevent others from availing themselves of  substantially all of the benefit from the
electronic record; and
(ii) Transfer control of the electronic record  to another person or cause another person
to obtain control of another controllable electronic record as  a result of the transfer of the
electronic record; and
(b) Enables the person readily to identify itself in any  way, including by name, identifying
number, cryptographic key,  office or account number, as having the powers specified in
paragraph (a) of this subsection.
(2) Subject to  subsection (3) of this section, a power is exclusive under subsection
(1)(a)(B) of this section even if:
(a) The controllable electronic record, a record attached to or logically  associated with
the electronic record or a system in which the electronic  record is recorded limits the use
of the electronic record or has a protocol  programmed to cause a change, including a
transfer or loss of control or a modification of benefits afforded by the electronic record;  or
(b) The power is shared with another person.
(3) A power of a person is  not shared with another person under subsection (2)(b) of this
section and the person’s power is not exclusive if:
(a) The person can exercise the power  only if the power also is exercised by the other
person; and
(b) The other person:
(A) Can exercise the power without exercise of the power by the person; or
(B) Is the  transferor to the person of an interest in the controllable electronic record
or a controllable account or controllable payment  intangible evidenced by the controllable
electronic record.
(4) If  a person has the powers specified in subsection (1)(a)(B) of this section, the powers
are presumed to be exclusive.
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 70
(5) A person has control of  a controllable electronic record if another person, other than
the transferor to the person of an interest in the controllable electronic record or a  con-
trollable account or controllable  payment intangible evidenced by the controllable electronic
record:
(a) Has control of the electronic record and acknowledges that it  has control on behalf
of the person; or
(b) Obtains control of the electronic record after having  acknowledged that it will obtain
control of the electronic record on behalf of the person.
(6) A person  that has control under this section is not required to acknowledge that it
has control on behalf of another person.
(7) If a person acknowledges that it has or will obtain control on behalf of another  per-
son, unless the person otherwise agrees or law  other than sections 94 to 100 of this 2025 Act
or ORS chapter  79 otherwise provides, the person does not owe any duty to the other person
and is not required to confirm the acknowledgment to any other person.
SECTION 99. (1) An account debtor on a controllable account or  controllable payment
intangible may discharge its obligation by paying:
(a) The person having control of the controllable electronic record that evidences the
controllable account or controllable payment intangible; or
(b) Except as provided in subsection  (2) of this section, a person that formerly had con-
trol of the controllable electronic record.
(2) Subject to subsection (4) of  this section, the account debtor may not discharge its
obligation by paying a person that formerly had control of the controllable  electronic record
if the account debtor receives a notification that:
(a) Is signed by a person that formerly had control  or the person to which control was
transferred;
(b) Reasonably identifies the controllable account or controllable payment intangible;
(c) Notifies the account debtor that control  of the controllable electronic record that
evidences the controllable account or controllable payment intangible was transferred;
(d) Identifies the transferee in any reasonable way, including by name, identifying num-
ber, cryptographic key, office or account number; and
(e) Provides a commercially reasonable method by which the  account debtor is to pay the
transferee.
(3) After receipt of a notification that complies  with subsection (2) of this section, the
account debtor may discharge its obligation by paying in accordance with the notification and
may not discharge the obligation by paying a person that formerly had control.
(4) Subject to subsection (8) of this section,  notification is ineffective under subsection
(2) of this section:
(a) Unless, before the  notification is sent, the account debtor and the person that, at that
time, had control of the controllable electronic record that evidences the controllable ac-
count or controllable payment intangible agree in a signed record to a commercially rea-
sonable method by which a person may furnish reasonable proof that control has  been
transferred;
(b) To the extent an agreement between the account debtor and seller of a payment in-
tangible limits the  account debtor’s duty to pay a person other than the seller and the limi-
tation is effective under law other than sections 94 to 100 of this 2025 Act; or
(c) At the option of the  account debtor, if the notification notifies the account debtor to:
(A) Divide a payment;
(B) Make less than the full amount of an installment or other periodic payment; or
(C) Pay any part of a payment by more than one method or to more than one person.
(5) Subject to subsection (8) of this section, if  requested by the account debtor, the per-
son giving the notification under subsection (2) of this section seasonably shall  furnish rea-
sonable proof, using the method in the agreement referred to in subsection  (4)(a) of this
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 71
section, that control  of the controllable electronic record has been transferred. Unless the
person compiles with the request, the account debtor may discharge its  obligation by paying
a person that formerly  had control, even if the account debtor has received a notification
under subsection (2) of this section.
(6) A person furnishes reasonable proof  under subsection (5) of this section that control
has been transferred if the person demonstrates, using the  method in the agreement re-
ferred to in subsection (4)(a) of this section, that the transferee has the power to:
(a) Avail itself of substantially all the benefit from the controllable electronic record;
(b) Prevent others from availing themselves of substantially  all the benefit from the
controllable electronic record; and
(c) Transfer the powers specified in paragraphs (a) and  (b) of this subsection to another
person.
(7) Subject to subsection (8) of this section, an  account debtor may not waive or vary its
rights under subsections (2)(a) and (5) of this section or its option under  subsection (4)(c)
of this section.
(8) This section is subject to law other than sections 94 to 100  of this 2025 Act that es-
tablishes a different rule for an account  debtor who is an individual and who incurred the
obligation primarily for personal, family or household purposes.
SECTION 100.
(1) Except as provided in subsection (2) of this section, the local law of a
controllable electronic record’s jurisdiction governs a matter covered under sections 94 to
100 of this 2025 Act.
(2) For a controllable electronic record that evidences a controllable account  or control-
lable payment  intangible, the local law of the controllable electronic record’s jurisdiction
governs a matter covered by section 99 of  this 2025 Act unless an effective agreement de-
termines that the local law of another jurisdiction governs.
(3) The following rules determine a controllable electronic record’s jurisdiction under this
section:
(a) If the controllable electronic  record, or a record attached to or logically associated
with the controllable electronic record and readily available for  review, expressly provides
that a particular jurisdiction is the  controllable electronic record’s jurisdiction for purposes
of sections  94 to 100 of this 2025 Act or the Uniform Commercial Code, that jurisdiction is
the controllable electronic record’s jurisdiction.
(b) If paragraph (a)  of this subsection does not apply and the rules of the system in which
the controllable electronic record is recorded are readily  available for review and expressly
provide that a particular jurisdiction  is the controllable electronic record’s jurisdiction for
purposes of sections 94 to 100 of this 2025 Act or the Uniform Commercial  Code, that juris-
diction is the controllable electronic record’s jurisdiction.
(c) If paragraphs (a) and (b) of this subsection do not apply  and the controllable elec-
tronic record, or a record attached to or  logically associated with the controllable electronic
record and readily available for review, expressly  provides that the controllable electronic
record is governed by the law of a particular jurisdiction, that jurisdiction is the  controllable
electronic record’s jurisdiction.
(d) If paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this subsection do not apply and the rules  of the
system in which the controllable electronic record is recorded are readily available for review
and expressly provide that the controllable electronic  record or the system is governed by
the law of a  particular jurisdiction, that jurisdiction is the controllable electronic record’s
jurisdiction.
(e) If paragraphs (a) through (d) of this subsection do not  apply, the controllable elec-
tronic record’s jurisdiction is the District of Columbia.
(4) If subsection (3)(e) of this section applies and Article 12  of the Uniform Commercial
Code is not in effect in the District of Columbia  without material modification, the governing
law for a matter  covered by sections 94 to 100 of this 2025 Act is the law of the District of
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 72
Columbia as though Article  12 were in effect in the District of Columbia without material
modification. In this subsection “Article 12”  means Article 12 of the Uniform Commercial
Code Amendments of 2022.
(5) To the extent that  subsections (1) and (2) of this section provide that the local law
of the controllable electronic record’s jurisdiction governs a matter covered by  sections 94
to 100 of this 2025 Act,  that law governs even if the matter or a transaction to which the
matter relates does not bear any relation to  the controllable electronic record’s jurisdiction.
(6) The rights acquired under section 97 of this  2025 Act by a purchaser or qualifying
purchaser are governed by the law applicable under this section at the time of purchase.
CONFORMING AMENDMENTS
TO OTHER STATUTES
SECTION 101. ORS 87.142 is amended to read:
87.142. As used in ORS 87.142 to 87.490 and 87.910, unless the context otherwise requires:
(1) “Animal” means any mammal, bird, fish, reptile, amphibian or insect.
(2) “Chattel” includes movable objects that are capable of being owned,  but does not include
personal rights not reduced to possession but recoverable by an  action at law or suit in equity,
money, evidence of debt and negotiable instruments.
(3) “Electric cooperative”  means a cooperative corporation organized under ORS chapter 62 the
principal business of which is the construction, maintenance  and operation of an electric trans-
mission and distribution system for the benefit  of the members of that cooperative corporation and
which has no other principal business or purpose.
(4) “Electric utility” means a corporation engaged in distributing electricity, directly or indi-
rectly, to or for the public and regulated by the Public Utility Commission under ORS chapter 757.
(5) “Excavation” means a shaft,  tunnel, incline, adit, drift or other excavation designed for the
use, working or draining of a mine.
(6) “Fair market value” means, with respect to a chattel sold at a  foreclosure sale under this
chapter, the price of chattels of the same kind and condition prevailing in  the county of sale at the
time of sale.
(7) “Fungible chattels” means chattels of which any unit is the equivalent of any other unit.
(8) “Improvement” means a road, tramway, trail, flume, ditch, pipeline, building, structure,
superstructure or boardinghouse used for or in connection with  the working or development of a
mine.
(9) “Irrigation” includes the use of canals, ditches, pipes, pumps, spraying apparatus and other
mechanical devices to water land artificially.
(10) “Mine” means a mine, lode, mining claim or deposit that contains or  may contain coal,
metal or mineral of any kind.
(11) “Mortgagee” means a person who has a valid subsisting mortgage of record  or trust deed
of record securing a loan upon any real  property to be charged with a lien under ORS 87.352 to
87.362.
(12) “Nursery stock” means fruit trees, fruit-tree stock, nut trees, grapevines, fruit bushes, rose
bushes, rose stock, forest and ornamental trees, and shrubs both deciduous and evergreen, florists’
stock and cuttings, scions  and seedlings of fruit or ornamental trees and shrubs, and all other
fruit-bearing plants and parts thereof and plant products for propagation or planting.
(13) “Owner” includes:
(a) A person who has title to a chattel or real property;
(b) A person  who is in possession of a chattel or real property under an agreement for the
purchase thereof, whether the title thereto is in the person or the vendor of the person; or
(c) A person who is in lawful possession of a chattel or real property.
(14) “Person” includes individuals, corporations, associations, firms, partnerships and  joint stock
companies.
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 73
(15) “Security interest” means an interest in a chattel reserved or created by  an agreement that
secures payment or performance of an obligation as  more particularly defined  by ORS  71.2010
[(2)(ii)] (2)(jj).
(16) “Timbers” means sawlogs, spars,  piles, felled logs and other wood growth that has been cut
or separated from land.
(17) “Wood products” includes lumber, slabwood,  plywood and other wood products produced
from timbers. The term does not include paper or products made from paper.
SECTION 102. ORS 87.700 is amended to read:
87.700. As used in ORS 87.228 and 87.700 to 87.736, unless the context otherwise requires:
(1) “Agricultural produce”  means horticultural products, viticultural products, fruit, berries,
vegetables, hops, mint oil, hazelnuts or other  nuts, dairy products, bee products, vermiculture pro-
ducts, hay or straw baled and prepared for market, meat animals and Christmas trees as defined in
ORS 571.505.
(2) “Agricultural producer” means a person that engages in  or has engaged in the business of
growing  or  producing agricultural produce for market or for delivery or transfer to others owning
or holding title to the produce. “Agricultural producer” includes a landowner,  producer, landlord,
tenant, sharecropper or other person who participates in the growing of agricultural produce and
receives a share of the produce.
(3) “Meat animal” has the meaning for that term provided in ORS 603.010.
(4) “Person” means individual, corporation,  partnership, association, joint stock company, lim-
ited liability  company, limited liability partnership, cooperative, government entity, unincorporated
organization or other business entity.
(5) “Purchaser” does not include a cooperative organized  and operating under ORS chapter 62,
including a foreign cooperative authorized to do business in this state under ORS  chapter 60, if the
agricultural producer is a member of the cooperative.
(6) “Security interest” has the meaning given that term in ORS 71.2010 [ (2)(ii)] (2)(jj).
SECTION 102a.
 ORS 95.270 is amended to read:
95.270. (1) A transfer or obligation is not voidable under ORS 95.230 (1)(a) as against a  person
that took in good faith and for a reasonably equivalent value given  the debtor or as against any
subsequent transferee or obligee.
(2) To the extent a transfer is avoidable in an action by a creditor under ORS 95.260  (1)(a), the
following  apply:
(a) Except as otherwise  provided in this section, the creditor may recover judgment for the
value of the asset transferred, as adjusted under subsection (3) of this section,  or the amount nec-
essary to satisfy the creditor’s claim, whichever is less. The judgment may be entered against:
(A) The first transferee of the asset or the person for whose benefit the transfer was made; or
(B) An immediate or mediate transferee of the first transferee, other than:
(i) A good-faith transferee that took for value; or
(ii) An immediate or mediate good-faith transferee of a person described  in sub-subparagraph (i)
of this subparagraph.
(b) Recovery under ORS 95.260 (1)(a) or (2) of, or from, the  asset transferred or its proceeds, by
levy or otherwise, is available only against a person described in paragraph (a) of this subsection.
(3) If the judgment under subsection (2) of this section is  based upon the value of the asset
transferred, the judgment must be for an amount equal to  the value of the asset at the time of the
transfer, subject to adjustment as the equities may require.
(4) Notwithstanding voidability of  a transfer or an obligation under ORS 95.200 to 95.310, a
good-faith transferee or obligee is entitled, to the extent of the value given the  debtor for the
transfer or obligation, to:
(a) A lien on or a right to retain any interest in the asset transferred;
(b) Enforcement of any obligation incurred; or
(c) A reduction in the amount of the liability on the judgment.
(5) A transfer is not voidable under ORS 95.230 (1)(b) or 95.240 if the transfer results from:
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 74
(a) Termination of  a lease upon default by the debtor when the termination is pursuant to the
terms of the lease and applicable law; or
(b) Enforcement of a  security interest in compliance with ORS chapter 79 , other than accept-
ance of collateral in full or partial satisfaction of the obligation the collateral secures .
(6) A transfer is not voidable under ORS 95.240 (2):
(a) To the extent the insider gave new value  to or for the benefit of the debtor after the transfer
was made unless the new value was secured by an otherwise unavoidable lien;
(b) If made in the ordinary course of business or financial affairs of the debtor  and the insider;
or
(c) If made pursuant to  a good-faith effort to rehabilitate the debtor and the transfer secured
present value given for that purpose as well as an antecedent debt of the debtor.
(7) The burden of proving matters referred to in this section is determined as follows:
(a) A party that seeks to invoke subsection (1), (4), (5) or (6) of this section  has the burden of
proving the applicability of the subsection.
(b) Except as otherwise provided in paragraphs (c) and  (d) of this subsection, the creditor has
the burden of proving each applicable element of subsection (2) or (3) of this section.
(c) The transferee  has the burden of proving the applicability to the transferee of subsection
(2)(a)(B)(i) or (ii) of this section.
(d) A party that seeks adjustment under  subsection (3) of this section has the burden of proving
the adjustment.
(8) The standard of proof required to establish  matters referred to in this section is preponder-
ance of the evidence.
SECTION 103.
 ORS 576.715 is amended to read:
576.715. As used in ORS 576.715 to 576.744:
(1) “Agricultural  seed” means grass seed of a type commonly sold for use in turf lawns or as
forage seed.
(2) “Authenticate” [ has the meaning given that term in ORS 79.0102 ] means:
(a) To sign; or
(b) With present intent to adopt or  accept a record, to attach to or logically associate
with the record an electronic sound, symbol or process .
(3) “Producer” means a person that grows agricultural seed in this state on  a commercial basis
for a seed dealer.
(4) “Seed bailment contract” means a seed production contract under which the seed dealer  re-
tains title  to all seed, seed stock and plant life grown or used by the producer under the terms of
the contract.
(5) “Seed dealer” means a person that in the ordinary course of business contracts to buy agri-
cultural seed grown  in this state by a producer or contracts with a producer for the growing of
agricultural seed in this state.
(6) “Seed delivery” means the date on  which the seed grower delivers grass seed to the seed
dealer pursuant to a notice from the dealer.
(7) “Seed grower” means a  person that grows grass seed in this state on a commercial basis
without entering into a contract with a seed dealer prior to harvesting of the seed.
(8) “Seed  production contract” means a written agreement between a producer and a seed dealer
for the growing of agricultural seed in this state.
(9) “Seed purchase contract” means a written agreement for a seed dealer to  purchase grass
seed that has been grown by a seed grower. “Seed purchase contract” does not include  a seed pro-
duction  contract.
(10) “Variety Not Stated  Seed” means agricultural seed that is sold in unmarked plastic bags
or other unmarked containers without any reference to a variety name for the seed.
SECTION 104.
 ORS 576.780 is amended to read:
576.780. As used in ORS 576.780 to 576.809:
(1) “Authenticate” [ has the meaning given that term in ORS 79.0102 ] means:
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 75
(a) To sign; or
(b) With present intent to adopt or  accept a record, to attach to or logically associate
with the record an electronic sound, symbol or process .
(2)(a) “Other  seed,” except as provided in paragraph (b) of this subsection, means seed or a
mixture of seed grown for commercial purposes.
(b) “Other seed” does not include:
(A) Agricultural seed as defined in ORS 576.715 or a mixture containing agricultural seed.
(B) Any seed or mixture  of seed that the Director of Agriculture excludes by rule in response
to a request by a producer organization or other producer group.
(C) Seed or a mixture of seed produced or processed under ORS 475C.770 to 475C.919.
(3) “Producer” means a person that grows other seed  in this state on a commercial basis for a
seed dealer.
(4) “Seed  bailment contract” means a seed production contract under which the seed dealer re-
tains title to all seed, seed stock and plant life grown or used by the producer under the terms  of
the contract.
(5) “Seed dealer” means a person  that in the ordinary course of business contracts to buy other
seed grown in this state by a producer or contracts with a  producer for the growing of other seed
in this state.
(6) “Seed delivery” means the date on which the seed grower delivers  other seed to the seed
dealer pursuant to a notice from the dealer.
(7) “Seed grower” means a person that grows other seed in this  state on a commercial basis
without entering into a contract with a seed dealer prior to harvesting of the seed.
(8) “Seed  production contract” means a written agreement between a producer and a seed dealer
for the growing of other seed in this state.
(9) “Seed purchase contract”  means a written agreement for a seed dealer to purchase other
seed that has been  grown by a seed grower. “Seed purchase contract” does not include a seed pro-
duction contract.
(10) “Variety Not Stated Seed” means other seed that is  sold in unmarked plastic bags or other
unmarked containers without any reference to a variety name for the seed.
SECTION 105.
 ORS 650.210 is amended to read:
650.210. Without limiting the other provisions of ORS 650.200 to 650.250, the following  specific
rights and prohibitions shall govern the relationship  between the franchisor and the franchisee. It
shall be unlawful and a violation of ORS 650.200 to 650.250 for any franchisor to:
(1) Require a franchisee to purchase or lease goods or services of a franchisor or  from approved
sources of supply unless and to the extent that the franchisor  satisfies the burden of proving that
such restrictive purchasing agreements are reasonably necessary for a lawful purpose justified on
business grounds, and do not substantially affect competition. This subsection does  not apply to the
initial inventory of the franchise. A determination of whether such restrictive purchasing agree-
ments are reasonably necessary for a lawful purpose justified on business grounds and do not sub-
stantially affect competition shall be guided by the decisions of the  courts of the United States in
interpreting and applying the antitrust laws of the United States.
(2) Sell, rent or  offer to sell or rent to a franchisee any product, service or property at a price
not set in good faith as defined in ORS 71.2010 [ (2)(t)] (2)(u).
(3) Require a franchisee to assent to a  release, assignment, novation or waiver which would
relieve any person from liability imposed by ORS 650.200 to 650.250.
(4) Refuse to renew  a franchise without fairly compensating the franchisee for the fair market
value at the  time of expiration of the franchise of the franchisee’s resalable inventory, supplies,
equipment and furnishings purchased from  the franchisor, not including personalized materials that
have no value to the franchisor and inventory, supplies, equipment  and furnishings not reasonably
required in the conduct of the franchise business. A franchisor may offset against amounts owed to
a franchisee under this subsection any amounts owed by such franchisee to the franchisor.
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 76
(5) Impose on a franchisee by contract, rule  or regulation, whether written or oral, any standard
of conduct unless the person so doing can sustain the burden of proving the  standard of conduct to
be reasonable.
SECTION 106. ORS 801.465 is amended to read:
801.465. “Security interest” means  an interest in a vehicle reserved or created by agreement and
which secures payment or performance of an obligation as more particularly  defined by ORS 71.2010
[(2)(ii)] (2)(jj).
SECTION 107. ORS 830.700 is amended to read:
830.700. As used in ORS 830.060 to  830.140, 830.700 to 830.715, 830.725, 830.730, 830.770, 830.780,
830.785, 830.795 to 830.820 and 830.830 to 830.870, unless the context requires otherwise:
(1) “Boat” means every description of watercraft used or  capable of being used as a means of
transportation on the water, but does not include aircraft equipped to land on  water, boathouses,
floating homes, air mattresses, beach and water toys or single inner tubes.
(2) “Boathouse” means a covered structure on floats or piles used for the protected moorage  of
boats.
(3) “Dealer” means a person who engages wholly or in part in the business of buying, selling
or exchanging boats, floating homes or  boathouses, either outright or on conditional sale, bailment
lease, chattel mortgage or otherwise.
(4) “Floating home” means a  moored structure that is secured to a pier or pilings and is used
primarily as a domicile and not as a boat.
(5) “Operate” means to navigate or otherwise use a boat on water.
(6) “Owner” means a person or  persons who have a property interest other than a security in-
terest in a boat, floating home or boathouse and the right of use or possession of the boat, floating
house or boathouse, but does not include a lessee.
(7) “Ownership” means a property interest other than a security interest.
(8) “Security interest” means an interest reserved or created by agreement which  secures pay-
ment or performance of an obligation as more particularly defined by ORS 71.2010 [ (2)(ii)] (2)(jj).
(9) “State of principal use” means the state on whose waters a boat is used  or to be used during
most of a calendar year.
TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS, APPLICABILITY
AND EFFECTIVE DATE
SECTION 108.
(1) As used in sections 108 to 115 of this 2025 Act:
(a) “Adjustment date”  means the date that is one year after the effective date of this
2025 Act.
(b) “Article 12 property” means a controllable account,  controllable electronic record or
controllable payment intangible.
(2) The following definitions in other chapters of the  Uniform Commercial Code apply to
sections 108 to 115 of this 2025 Act:
(a) “Controllable account”: ORS 79.0102.
(b) “Controllable electronic record”: section 95 of this 2025 Act.
(c) “Controllable payment intangible”: ORS 79.0102.
(d) “Electronic money”: ORS 79.0102.
(e) “Financing statement”: ORS 79.0102.
(3) ORS chapter 79 contains general definitions and principles of  construction applicable
throughout sections 108 to 115 of this 2025 Act.
SECTION 109.
Except as provided in sections 108 to 115 of this  2025 Act, a transaction
validly entered into before the effective date of this  2025 Act and the rights, duties and in-
terests flowing from the transaction remain valid thereafter and  may be terminated, com-
pleted, consummated or enforced as required or permitted by law other than  the Uniform
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 77
Commercial Code or, if applicable, by the Uniform Commercial Code as though this 2025  Act
had not taken effect.
SECTION 110. (1) Except as provided in sections  108 to 115 of this 2025 Act, ORS chapter
79 and sections 94 to 100 of this 2025  Act, apply to a transaction, lien or other interest in
property even if the transaction, lien or  interest was entered into, created or acquired before
the effective date of this 2025 Act.
(2) Except as provided in subsection (3) of this section and sections 108 to  115 of this 2025
Act:
(a) A transaction, lien or interest in property that was validly entered into,  created or
transferred before the  effective date of this 2025 Act and was not governed by the Uniform
Commercial Code, but would be subject to ORS chapter 79  and sections 94 to 100 of this 2025
Act if it  had been entered into, created or transferred on or after the effective date of this
2025 Act, including the rights, duties and interests flowing from the transaction, lien or in-
terest, remains valid on and after the effective date of this 2025 Act; and
(b) The transaction, lien  or interest may be terminated, completed, consummated and
enforced as required or  permitted under this 2025 Act or by the law that would apply if this
2025 Act had not taken effect.
(3) This 2025 Act does not affect an  action, case or proceeding commenced before the
effective date of this 2025 Act.
SECTION 111.
(1) A security interest that is enforceable and perfected immediately  be-
fore the effective date of this 2025 Act is a perfected security interest under this 2025  Act
if, on the effective  date of this 2025 Act, the requirements for enforceability and perfection
under this 2025 Act are satisfied without further action.
(2) If a security interest  is enforceable and perfected immediately before the effective
date of  this 2025 Act but the requirements for enforceability and perfection under this 2025
Act are not satisfied on the effective date of this 2025 Act, the security interest:
(a) Is a perfected security interest until the earlier of the time  perfection would have
ceased under the law in effect immediately before the effective date of this 2025 Act or the
adjustment date;
(b) Remains enforceable thereafter only if  the security interest satisfies the require-
ments for enforceability under ORS 79.0203 before the adjustment date; and
(c) Remains perfected thereafter only if the requirements for perfection under  this 2025
Act are satisfied before the time specified in paragraph (a) of this subsection.
SECTION 112. A security interest that is enforceable immediately before the effective
date of this 2025 Act but is unperfected at that time:
(1) Remains an enforceable security interest until the adjustment date;
(2) Remains enforceable thereafter if  the security interest becomes enforceable under
ORS 79.0203 on the effective date of this 2025 Act or before the adjustment date; and
(3) Becomes perfected:
(a) Without further action on the  effective date of this 2025 Act if the requirements for
perfection under this 2025 Act are satisfied before, or at, that time; or
(b) When the requirements  for perfection are satisfied if the requirements are satisfied
after that time.
SECTION 113.
(1) If action, other than the  filing of a financing statement, is taken before
the effective date of this 2025  Act and the action would have resulted in perfection of the
security interest had the security interest become enforceable before the effective date  of
this 2025 Act, the action is effective to perfect  a security interest that attaches under this
2025 Act before the adjustment date. An attached security interest becomes  unperfected on
the adjustment date unless the security interest becomes a perfected security  interest under
this 2025 Act before the adjustment date.
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 78
(2) The filing of a financing statement before the effective date  of this 2025 Act is effec-
tive to perfect a  security interest on the effective date of this 2025 Act to the extent that
the filing would satisfy the requirements for perfection under this 2025 Act.
(3) The taking of  an action before the effective date of this 2025 Act is sufficient for the
enforceability of a security interest on the effective date of this 2025  Act if the action would
satisfy the requirements for enforceability under this 2025 Act.
SECTION 114. (1) Subject to subsections (2) and (3)  of this section, this 2025 Act deter-
mines the priority of conflicting claims to collateral.
(2) Subject to subsection (3) of this section, if the priorities of claims to collateral  were
established before the effective date of this 2025 Act, ORS chapter  79, as in effect before the
effective date of this 2025 Act, determines priority.
(3) On the adjustment date, to the extent the  priorities determined by ORS chapter 79
modify the priorities established before the effective date of  this 2025 Act, the priority of
claims to Article 12 property and electronic money  established before the effective date of
this 2025 Act cease to apply.
SECTION 115. (1) Subject to subsections (2) and (3) of this section, sections 94  to 100 of
this 2025 Act determine the priority of conflicting  claims to Article 12 property when the
priority rules of ORS chapter 79 do not apply.
(2) Subject to subsection (3) of  this section, when the priority rules of ORS chapter 79
do not apply and the priorities  of claims to Article 12 property were established before the
effective date of  this 2025 Act, law other than sections 94 to 100 of this 2025 Act determines
priority.
(3) When the priority rules of ORS chapter 79 do not apply, to  the extent the priorities
determined by this 2025 Act modify the priorities established before the effective date of this
2025 Act, the priorities of claims to Article 12  property established before the effective date
of this 2025 Act cease to apply on the adjustment date.
Passed by Senate February 18, 2025
..................................................................................
Obadiah Rutledge, Secretary of Senate
..................................................................................
Rob Wagner, President of Senate
Passed by House April 28, 2025
..................................................................................
Julie Fahey, Speaker of House
Received by Governor:
........................M.,........................................................., 2025
Approved:
........................M.,........................................................., 2025
..................................................................................
Tina Kotek, Governor
Filed in Office of Secretary of State:
........................M.,........................................................., 2025
..................................................................................
Tobias Read, Secretary of State
Enrolled Senate Bill 167 (SB 167-INTRO) Page 79