1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 1057
Sponsored by Senator THATCHER; Senator  GELSER BLOUIN, Representative LEVY B (at the request of Logan
Isaac)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Finds and declares that members of the military and their family have military  civil
rights. Tells the AG to make guidelines on the rights. (Flesch Readability Score: 64.2).
Finds and declares that current and former members of the  military and their family members
possess certain essential military civil rights. Directs the Attorney General to develop  guidelines
consistent with the described military civil rights to guide public bodies.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to military civil rights.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Legislative Assembly  finds and declares that current and former
members of the military, regardless of branch, rank or  specialty, and their family members
possess certain essential military civil rights, including the rights:
(a) To receive the full  benefits of citizenship enjoyed by all Americans, all advantages
granted by their state of residence and equal protection  under local, state and federal law
afforded to other protected classes;
(b) To live free from bias, harassment and discrimination in public  accommodations,
business transactions, health care, employment and housing;
(c) To have meaningful regulatory and investigative standards for military  civil rights
that are enforced by judicial review and local, state and federal prosecutorial discretion;
(d) To have a public body, as defined  in ORS 174.109, reasonably and equally apply re-
search, education and advocacy resources to military civil rights;
(e) To be included in diversity and equity measures taken by local and state  governments
and at places of employment;
(f) To have their personal privacy respected in regard to their military records  and for
all medals, awards and badges be worn or displayed only by verifiable service members;
(g) To  not be judged, labeled or blamed for decisions made by a current or former
Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces of the United States or elected or  appointed gov-
ernment official;
(h) To be  represented with dignity in art, music and other media to avoid harmful ster-
eotypes and inaccurate caricatures that may arise from civilian bias;
(i) To  obtain remedy and relief from individuals who or entities that profit from an
individual’s military experience or from military culture or history without first employing
a qualified advisor who represents the military; and
(j) To have their documented military  experience, training and qualifications be reason-
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 4669
SB 1057
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
ably and accurately  considered in the decision-making processes of landlords, employers,
service providers and college admissions personnel.
(2) The Attorney General shall develop:
(a) Guidelines consistent with the military civil  rights described in subsection (1) of this
section to guide public bodies, as defined in ORS 174.109, in implementing policies  and pro-
cedures that have an impact on  current and former members of the military and their family
members; and
(b) Policies and funding recommendations  consistent with the military civil rights de-
scribed in subsection (1) of this section.
[2]