1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2664
Sponsored by Representative EVANS (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Tells ODVA  to make a program to buy housing properties and rent to veterans who need
help with housing. (Flesch Readability Score: 67.3).
Directs the Department of Veterans’ Affairs to establish and administer a program to acquire
and manage residential properties for the benefit of veterans  who are experiencing, or are at risk
of experiencing, housing instability. Authorizes the department to enter into agreements with private
entities to administer the program.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to housing for veterans.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Department of Veterans’ Affairs shall establish and  administer a
program to purchase and manage residential properties for the benefit of veterans, as  de-
scribed in this section.
(2) Under the  program, the department shall purchase single-family or multifamily resi-
dential properties  from moneys in the Veterans Housing Capacity Investment Fund estab-
lished under section 3 of this 2025 Act. When acquiring a property, the  department may not
pay more than 90 percent of the fair market value of a property.
(3) The department shall rent or  otherwise temporarily provide properties acquired under
the program to veterans who are experiencing, or are at risk of experiencing, housing in-
stability. The department shall enter into a lease agreement with a veteran before  providing
a property to  the veteran. The lease agreement must contain terms adequately protecting
the department’s interest in the property.
(4) The department shall take  the following factors into account when determining
whether to acquire a particular property:
(a) The proximity of  the property to veterans who are experiencing, or are at risk of
experiencing, housing instability; and
(b) The proximity of the  property to agencies or entities that provide services to veter-
ans.
(5) The department may enter into agreements with private entities to  administer the
program described in this section.
(6) The  department may sell or otherwise dispose of properties acquired under this sec-
tion, if the department determines that doing so is in the best  interest of veterans. Any
moneys derived from the sale or disposal of a property under this section must be  deposited
in the Veterans Housing Capacity Investment Fund.
(7) The department shall adopt rules necessary for the administration of this section.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 3167
HB 2664
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
(8) As used in this section, “veteran” has the meaning given that term in ORS 408.225.
SECTION 2.
The Department of Veterans’ Affairs shall establish and utilize the office of
the Housing Security Coordinator to manage  the program established under section 1 of this
2025 Act and to carry out other duties as may be established by law.
SECTION 3. The Veterans Housing Capacity Investment Fund is established in  the State
Treasury, separate and distinct from the General Fund. The Veterans Housing Capacity In-
vestment Fund consists of moneys appropriated, allocated, deposited or transferred to the
fund by the  Legislative Assembly or otherwise. Moneys in the fund are continuously appro-
priated to the Department of Veterans’ Affairs to carry out the provisions of section 1 of this
2025 Act.
[2]