1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 938
Sponsored by Senators PROZANSKI, GORSEK, Representatives  CHAICHI, CHOTZEN; Senator PHAM K, Repre-
sentative GRAYBER (at the request of Restorative Justice Coalition of Oregon)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act changes the restorative justice grant program.  The Act goes into effect when
the Governor signs it. (Flesch Readability Score: 66.1).
Modifies what entities may receive restorative justice program grants.
Establishes the Restorative Justice Grant Program Account and  continuously appropriates
moneys in the account to the Oregon Criminal Justice Commission for the grant program.
Declares an emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to restorative justice; creating  new provisions; amending ORS 137.679; and declaring an
emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 137.679 is amended to read:
137.679. (1) The Oregon Criminal Justice Commission shall establish a  program to award grants
to public and private entities for restorative justice programs.
(2) The commission shall adopt rules to administer the grant program  described in subsection
(1) of this section. The rules must:
(a) Define restorative justice for the purpose of grant eligibility criteria.
(b) Specify the application process and eligibility criteria for the grant program,  including a
requirement that:
(A) Each applicant demonstrate in the application coordination with community-based organiza-
tions and the ability to work collaboratively with system  partners, including local law enforcement
entities, courts, district attorneys and defense attorneys.
(B) Each successful applicant demonstrate in the application how the applicant will center  the
experiences of those harmed, encourage those who have caused  harm to take responsibility and re-
pair the harm, and support persons who have been harmed, impacted community members and  re-
sponsible parties in identifying solutions that promote healing, including promoting dialogue  and
mutual agreement.
(c) Include a  methodology for reviewing and approving grant applications and distributing grant
funds.
(3) The commission shall convene an advisory committee to evaluate and approve grant awards
under this section.
(4) The commission may award a grant  described in this section to a statewide coalition
dedicated to  the advancement of restorative justice, that does not directly administer or
provide a restorative justice program, but  that actively assists or supports other potential
grant recipients  in applying for and receiving grants under this section. The commission
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1988
SB 938
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
shall determine  the proportion of grant funds available to an entity described in this sub-
section.
(5) Program participant data reported to  the commission pursuant to this section may
be used only for  statistical purposes and not for any other purpose, and any data reports
may not contain information that reveals the identity of any individual. Data collected  by
government agencies or held by the commission pursuant to this  section that may reveal the
identity of any individual is exempt from public disclosure in any manner.
SECTION 2.
(1) The Restorative Justice Grant Program Account is created, separate and
distinct from the General Fund. Interest on the account shall be credited to the account.
(2)(a) Moneys in the account are continuously appropriated to  the Oregon Criminal Jus-
tice Commission for the purposes of carrying out the provisions of ORS 137.679.
(b) The commission may accept grants, donations, contributions or gifts from  any source
for deposit into the account.
(3) The account consists of:
(a) Moneys  that the Legislative Assembly appropriates each biennium, or at any other
time, for deposit into the account;
(b) Interest earned on moneys in the account; and
(c) Other moneys deposited in the account from any source.
SECTION 3.
This 2025 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist,  and this 2025 Act takes effect
on its passage.
[2]