82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2023 Regular Session
Enrolled
House Bill 2002
Sponsored by Representatives VALDERRAMA, NELSON,  Senators LIEBER, STEINER; Represen-
tatives ANDERSEN, BOWMAN, BYNUM, DEXTER, FAHEY, GAMBA,  GOMBERG, GRAYBER,
HARTMAN, HELM, HOLVEY, HUDSON, KROPF, MARSH, MCLAIN, NGUYEN D,  NGUYEN
H, NOSSE, PHAM H, PHAM K, REYNOLDS, RUIZ, SOSA,  TRAN, WALTERS, Senators
CAMPOS, DEMBROW, FREDERICK, GELSER BLOUIN, GOLDEN, GORSEK, JAMA,  MAN-
NING JR, MEEK, PATTERSON, PROZANSKI, SOLLMAN, TAYLOR, WAGNER, WOODS
CHAPTER .................................................
AN ACT
Relating to health; creating new provisions;  amending ORS 15.430, 109.640, 161.005, 192.345, 192.820,
192.822, 192.826, 243.144, 243.877,  418.307, 435.215, 435.225, 436.225, 659.880, 659A.029, 675.070,
675.540, 675.745, 676.177, 677.190, 677.225, 677.320,  678.111, 685.110, 689.405 and 743A.067; re-
pealing ORS 109.610, 109.660, 435.200 and 435.435; and declaring an emergency.
Whereas nothing in the insurance provisions of this 2023 Act  affects the age at which a minor
may consent to receive health care services; now, therefore,
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH RIGHTS
SECTION 1.
ORS 435.205 to 435.235 and 659.880 are added to and  made a part of sections
2 to 4 of this 2023 Act.
SECTION 2. As used in sections 2 to 4 of this 2023 Act:
(1) “Contraception” includes:
(a) Steroidal, chemical, physical or barrier, natural or  permanent methods for preventing
the union of an ovum with the  spermatozoon, or for preventing the subsequent implantation
of the fertilized ovum in the uterus;
(b) All postcoital methods, drugs or devices to prevent pregnancy; and
(c) Any other process, device or method to prevent pregnancy.
(2) “Public body” means a public body  as defined in ORS 174.109 and the Oregon Health
and Science University.
(3) “Reproductive health”  means reproductive processes, functions and systems at all
stages of life.
(4) “Reproductive health care” includes  family planning and contraception, pregnancy
termination services, prenatal, postnatal and  delivery care, miscarriage management,
fertility care, sterilization services,  treatments for sexually transmitted infections and re-
productive cancers and any other health care and medical  services related to reproductive
health.
SECTION 3.
Every individual has a fundamental right to make decisions about  the
individual’s reproductive health, including the right to make decisions about  the individual’s
Enrolled House Bill 2002 (HB 2002-C) Page 1
reproductive health  care, to use or refuse contraception, to continue the individual’s preg-
nancy and give birth or to terminate the individual’s pregnancy.
SECTION 4. (1) Any person  may bring an action against a public body, or an officer,
employee or  agent of a public body, for injunctive relief to enforce the requirements of
sections 2 to 4 of this 2023 Act.
(2) The court may  award reasonable attorney fees and costs to a prevailing plaintiff in
an action under this section.
(3) ORS 30.260 to 30.300 apply to an action under this section.
SECTION 5.
 ORS 659.880 is amended to read:
659.880. (1) A public body [ as defined in ORS 174.109 ] or, except as provided in ORS  435.225,
an officer, employee or agent of a public body may not:
[(1)] (a)  Deprive  a consenting individual of the choice of [ terminating the individual’s
pregnancy] exercising the individual’s reproductive health rights under section 3  of this 2023
Act;
[(2)] (b) Interfere with or restrict, in the regulation [ or provision ] of benefits,  facilities, services
or information, the choice of  a consenting individual to [ terminate the individual’s pregnancy ] exer-
cise the individual’s reproductive health rights under section 3 of this 2023 Act ;
[(3)] (c)  Prohibit a  health care provider, who is acting within the scope of the health care
provider’s license, from [ terminating or assisting in  the termination of a patient’s pregnancy ] provid-
ing reproductive health care information and services to a consenting individual ; [ or]
[(4)] (d) Interfere with or restrict, in the regulation [ or provision ] of benefits,  facilities, services
or information, the choice of a  health care provider, who is acting within the scope of the health
care provider’s license, [ to terminate or assist in the termination of a patient’s pregnancy. ] to provide
reproductive health care information and services to a consenting individual;
(e) Subject an individual to criminal or civil liability or penalty, or otherwise deprive  the
individual of any rights, based on the individual’s actions  or omissions in exercising the
individual’s reproductive health rights under section 3 of this  2023 Act, including any action
or omission affecting an actual, potential or alleged pregnancy outcome; or
(f) Subject any person to criminal or civil liability or penalty, or otherwise deprive any
person of the  person’s rights, based solely on the person’s actions in the provision of aid,
assistance, resources or support to an  individual in the exercise of the individual’s repro-
ductive health rights, provided that the person’s  actions do not otherwise violate the laws
of this state.
(2)(a) Nothing in this section is intended to prevent  the application of laws, rules, ordi-
nances or taxes that affect  the method or manner of sales or distribution of contraceptive
devices or the provision of reproductive health care, provided that the laws, rules, ordinances
or taxes are designed to promote public health and safety and do not unreasonably  burden
public access to contraception or other reproductive health care.
(b) Nothing in this section requires a public body to  provide or pay for reproductive
health care.
SECTION 6.
 ORS 435.215 is amended to read:
435.215. [The refusal of any person to accept family planning and birth control services shall  in
no way affect the right of such person to receive public assistance, medical assistance, as  defined in
ORS 414.025, or  any other public benefit and every person to whom such services are offered shall be
so advised initially both orally and  in writing. Employees engaged in the administration of ORS
435.205 to 435.235 shall recognize that the right  to make decisions concerning family planning and
birth control is a fundamental personal right of the individual and nothing in  ORS 435.205 to 435.235
shall in any way abridge such  individual right, nor shall any individual be required to state the reason
for refusing the offer of family planning and birth control services. ]
(1) An individual’s acceptance or refusal to accept reproductive health care  information
and services may not:
Enrolled House Bill 2002 (HB 2002-C) Page 2
(a) Be grounds for the loss of  any privilege or immunity to which the individual is oth-
erwise entitled; or
(b) Affect the individual’s right to receive public assistance, medical assistance, as  de-
fined in ORS 414.025, or any other public benefit.
(2) An officer, employee or agent of a public body who  is engaged in the provision of re-
productive health care information and services:
(a) Shall advise  every individual to whom the officer, employee or agent of a public body
provides reproductive health care information and services, both orally and in  writing, of the
rights described under subsection (1) of this section;
(b) Shall recognize that the right to make decisions concerning reproductive health  care
is a fundamental personal right of the individual and that nothing in ORS  435.475 or 435.485
or sections 2 to 4 of this 2023 Act or ORS chapter 436 in any way abridges that right; and
(c) May not require any individual to state  the reason for accepting or refusing the offer
of reproductive health care information and services.
SECTION 7.  ORS 435.225 is amended to read:
435.225. (1) [Any employee  of the Oregon Health Authority ] An officer, employee or agent of
a public body may  refuse to accept the duty of offering [ family planning and birth control ] repro-
ductive health care information and  services to the extent that such  duty is contrary to the
personal or religious beliefs of the [ employee] officer, employee or agent. However, such
[employee] officer, employee or  agent  shall notify the immediate supervisor in writing of such re-
fusal in order that arrangements may be  made for eligible [ persons] individuals to obtain such in-
formation and services from another officer, employee  or agent .
(2) If an officer, employee or agent of a public body refuses to provide reproductive health
care information and services as provided in subsection (1) of this section, the public  body
shall immediately make arrangements for an individual to receive  reproductive health care
information and services from another officer, employee or agent of the public body.
(3) [Such refusal shall ] The refusal of an officer,  employee or agent of a public body to
provide reproductive health care information and services under subsection (1) of this sec-
tion may  not be grounds for any disciplinary action, for dismissal, for any  interdepartmental
transfer, for any  other discrimination in employment, or for suspension from employment, or for any
loss in pay or other benefits.
SECTION 8.
 ORS 109.640, as amended by section  14, chapter 349, Oregon Laws 2021, is
amended to read:
109.640. (1) As  used in this section, “reproductive health care” has the meaning given that
term in section 2 of this 2023 Act, except that “reproductive health care” does not include
the elective sterilization of a minor under 15 years of age.
[(1)] (2)(a) As used in this  subsection, “health care provider” means a physician, physician
assistant licensed under ORS 677.505 to  677.525, nurse practitioner licensed under ORS
678.375 to 678.390 or a pharmacist licensed under ORS chapter 689.
(b) A minor under 15 years of age may give consent, without  the consent of a parent or
guardian of  the minor, to an abortion only if the abortion is provided by a health care pro-
vider who is acting within the health care provider’s scope of practice and who reasonably
believes, in the health care provider’s professional judgment, that:
(A) Involving the  parent or guardian of the minor may result in the physical or emotional
abuse of the minor or the neglect of the minor; or
(B) Requiring the  consent of a parent or guardian of the minor would not be in the best
interest of the minor, for the reasons documented by the health care provider after obtaining
the concurrence of another health care  provider who is associated with a separate medical
practice or facility.
(3) Except as provided in subsection (2) of this section  and notwithstanding subsection
(4) of this section, a minor of any age may give consent, without the consent of a  parent or
guardian of  the minor, to receive reproductive health care information and services from a
Enrolled House Bill 2002 (HB 2002-C) Page 3
health care provider who is a physician, physician assistant licensed under ORS 677.505 to 677.525,
nurse practitioner  licensed under ORS 678.375 to 678.390 , pharmacist licensed under ORS chapter
689 or naturopathic physician licensed under ORS chapter 685  [may provide birth control information
and services to any person without  regard to the age of the person ], and who is acting within the
provider’s scope of practice .
[(2)] (4) A minor 15 years of age or older may give consent, without the consent of a parent  or
guardian of the minor, to:
(a) Hospital  care, medical or surgical diagnosis or treatment by a physician licensed by the
Oregon Medical Board or a naturopathic physician licensed under ORS chapter 685, and dental or
surgical diagnosis or treatment by a dentist licensed  by the Oregon Board of Dentistry[ , except as
provided by ORS 109.660 ].
(b) Diagnosis or treatment  by a physician assistant who is licensed under ORS 677.505 to 677.525
and who is acting pursuant to a collaboration agreement as defined in ORS 677.495.
(c) Diagnosis and treatment by a nurse practitioner who is licensed by the Oregon State  Board
of Nursing under ORS 678.375 and who is acting within the  scope of practice for a nurse practi-
tioner.
(d) Except when the minor is obtaining contact lenses for  the first time, diagnosis and treatment
by an optometrist who is licensed by the Oregon Board of Optometry under ORS 683.010  to 683.340
and who is acting within the scope of practice for an optometrist.
(5) If a person, including a health care  provider, has reasonable cause to believe that a
minor the person comes into contact with under this section has  suffered abuse, as defined
in ORS 419B.005, the person shall  immediately comply with the person’s mandatory child
abuse reporting duties under ORS 419B.010.
NOTE:
 Section 9 was deleted by amendment. Subsequent sections were not renumbered.
SECTION 10.  ORS 418.307 is amended to read:
418.307. (1) A physician licensed by the Oregon  Medical Board, a naturopathic physician li-
censed under ORS chapter 685,  a dentist licensed by the Oregon Board of Dentistry or a hospital
licensed by the Department of Human Services is authorized to treat a child  who is ward of the
court or is a dependent  or delinquent child in accord with the best medical judgment of the physi-
cian, naturopathic physician, dentist or responsible official of the hospital and without consent if:
(a) Because of the general state of the child’s health or any particular  condition, the physician,
naturopathic physician, dentist or responsible official of the hospital determines  that in the medical
judgment of the physician, naturopathic physician, dentist or responsible  official prompt action is
reasonably necessary to avoid unnecessary suffering or discomfort or to effect  a more expedient or
effective cure; and
(b) It is impossible or highly impractical to obtain consent for treating the  child from the
child-caring agency, the child’s parent or the child’s legal guardian.
(2) No charge of assault or battery shall  be made against a physician, naturopathic physician,
dentist or hospital official or employee who provides medical  treatment pursuant to subsection (1)
of this section.
(3) A minor child described in subsection (1) of this section [ who is 15 years  of age or older ] may
consent to medical treatment [ pursuant to ] as provided in  ORS 109.640.
SECTION 11.  ORS 436.225 is amended to read:
436.225. (1) In obtaining informed consent for sterilization a physician, physician  assistant or
nurse practitioner must offer to  answer any questions the individual to be sterilized may have con-
cerning the proposed procedure,  and must provide orally all of the following information or advice
to the individual to be sterilized:
(a) Advice that the individual is free to withhold or withdraw consent  to the procedure at any
time before the sterilization without affecting the right to future care or treatment;
(b) A description of available alternative methods of family planning and birth control;
(c) Advice that the sterilization procedure is considered to be irreversible;
(d) A thorough explanation of the specific sterilization procedure to be performed;
Enrolled House Bill 2002 (HB 2002-C) Page 4
(e) A full description of the discomforts and risks  that may accompany or follow the performing
of the procedure, including an explanation of the type and possible effects  of any anesthetic to be
used; and
(f) A full description of the  benefits or advantages that may be expected as a result of the
sterilization.
(2) A  natural parent, or a legal guardian or conservator of a minor child or protected person
appointed under ORS chapter 125, may not give substitute consent for sterilization.
(3) Whenever any physician, physician assistant or nurse practitioner has reason to believe  an
individual 15 years of age or older is unable to give informed consent, no sterilization shall be  per-
formed until it  is determined by a circuit court that the individual involved is able to and has given
informed consent. Whenever the court determines, under the provisions  of this chapter, that a
person lacks the ability to give informed consent, the court  shall permit sterilization only if the
person is 18 years of age or older and only upon showing that  such operation, treatment or proce-
dure is in the best interest of the individual.
(4) Notwithstanding section 3 of this 2023 Act,  informed consent may not be obtained while
the individual to be sterilized is:
(a) In labor or childbirth;
(b) Seeking to obtain or obtaining an abortion; or
(c) Under the influence  of alcohol or other substances that affect the individual’s state of
awareness.
SECTION 12.
 ORS 743A.067,  as amended by section 12, chapter 45, Oregon Laws 2022, is
amended to read:
743A.067. (1) As used in this section:
(a) “Contraceptives” means health  care services, drugs, devices, products or medical procedures
to prevent a pregnancy.
(b) “Enrollee” means an insured  individual and the individual’s spouse, domestic partner and
dependents who are beneficiaries under the insured individual’s health benefit plan.
(c) “Health benefit plan”  has the meaning given that term in ORS 743B.005, excluding Medicare
Advantage Plans and  including health benefit plans offering pharmacy benefits administered by a
third party administrator or pharmacy benefit manager.
(d) “Prior authorization” has the meaning given that term in ORS 743B.001.
(e) “Religious employer” has the meaning given that term in ORS 743A.066.
(f) “Utilization review” has the meaning given that term in ORS 743B.001.
(2) A health benefit plan offered in this  state must provide coverage for all of the following
services, drugs, devices, products and procedures:
(a) Well-woman care  prescribed by the Department of Consumer and Business Services by rule
consistent with guidelines published by the United  States Health Resources and Services Adminis-
tration.
(b) Counseling for sexually transmitted  infections, including but not limited to human
immunodeficiency virus and acquired immune deficiency syndrome.
(c) Screening for:
(A) Chlamydia;
(B) Gonorrhea;
(C) Hepatitis B;
(D) Hepatitis C;
(E) Human immunodeficiency virus and acquired immune deficiency syndrome;
(F) Human papillomavirus;
(G) Syphilis;
(H) Anemia;
(I) Urinary tract infection;
(J) Pregnancy;
(K) Rh incompatibility;
Enrolled House Bill 2002 (HB 2002-C) Page 5
(L) Gestational diabetes;
(M) Osteoporosis;
(N) Breast cancer; and
(O) Cervical cancer.
(d) Screening to determine whether counseling  related to the BRCA1 or BRCA2 genetic
mutations is indicated  and counseling related to the BRCA1 or BRCA2 genetic mutations if indi-
cated.
(e) Screening and appropriate counseling or interventions for:
(A) Tobacco use; and
(B) Domestic and interpersonal violence.
(f) Folic acid supplements.
(g) Abortion.
(h) Breastfeeding comprehensive support, counseling and supplies.
(i) Breast cancer chemoprevention counseling.
(j) Any contraceptive drug, device or  product approved by the United States Food and Drug
Administration, subject to all of the following:
(A) If there is a therapeutic equivalent of  a contraceptive drug, device or product approved by
the United States Food and Drug Administration, a  health benefit plan may provide coverage for
either the  requested contraceptive drug, device or product or for one or more therapeutic equiv-
alents of the requested drug, device or product.
(B) If  a contraceptive drug, device or product covered by the health benefit plan is deemed
medically inadvisable by the enrollee’s provider, the health  benefit plan must cover an alternative
contraceptive drug, device or product prescribed by the provider.
(C) A health benefit plan must pay pharmacy claims for  reimbursement of all contraceptive
drugs available for over-the-counter sale that are  approved by the United States Food and Drug
Administration.
(D) A health benefit plan may not infringe upon  an enrollee’s choice of contraceptive drug, de-
vice or product and may not require  prior authorization, step therapy or other utilization review
techniques for medically appropriate covered contraceptive drugs, devices or other products  ap-
proved by the United States Food and Drug Administration.
(k) Voluntary sterilization.
(L) As a single claim or combined with other claims for covered services provided  on the same
day:
(A) Patient education and counseling on contraception and sterilization.
(B) Services related to sterilization or the administration and  monitoring of contraceptive drugs,
devices and products, including but not limited to:
(i) Management of side effects;
(ii) Counseling for continued adherence to a prescribed regimen;
(iii) Device insertion and removal; and
(iv) Provision  of alternative contraceptive drugs, devices or products deemed medically appro-
priate in the judgment of the enrollee’s provider.
(m) Any  additional preventive services for women that must be covered without cost sharing
under 42 U.S.C. 300gg-13, as identified by the United States  Preventive Services Task Force or the
Health Resources and Services Administration of the United States Department of Health  and Hu-
man Services as of January 1, 2017.
(3) A health benefit plan may not impose on  an enrollee a deductible, coinsurance, copayment
or any other cost-sharing requirement on the coverage required  by this section. A health care pro-
vider shall be reimbursed for providing the services  described in this section without any deduction
for coinsurance, copayments or any other cost-sharing amounts.
(4) Except as  authorized under this section, a health benefit plan may not impose any re-
strictions or delays on the coverage required by this section.
Enrolled House Bill 2002 (HB 2002-C) Page 6
(5) This section does not exclude coverage for contraceptive drugs, devices or products  pre-
scribed by a provider, acting within the provider’s scope of practice, for:
(a) Reasons other than contraceptive purposes, such  as decreasing the risk of ovarian cancer
or eliminating symptoms of menopause; or
(b) Contraception that is necessary to preserve the life or health of an enrollee.
(6) This  section does not limit the authority of the Department of Consumer and Business Ser-
vices to ensure compliance with ORS 743A.063 and 743A.066.
(7) This section does not require a health benefit plan to cover:
(a) Experimental or investigational treatments;
(b) Clinical trials or demonstration projects, except as provided in ORS 743A.192;
(c) Treatments that do not conform to acceptable and customary standards of medical practice;
(d) Treatments for which there is insufficient data to determine efficacy; or
(e) Abortion if the insurer offering the health benefit plan :
(A) Has a  certificate of authority to transact insurance in this state issued by the De-
partment of Consumer and Business Services; and
(B) Excluded coverage for abortion in all of its individual, small employer  and large employer
group plans during the 2017 plan year.
(8) If services, drugs, devices,  products or procedures required by this section are provided by
an out-of-network provider, the health  benefit plan must cover the services, drugs, devices, products
or procedures without imposing any cost-sharing requirement on the enrollee if:
(a) There is no in-network provider to furnish the service, drug, device, product  or procedure
that is geographically accessible or accessible in a reasonable amount of time, as defined by  the
Department of Consumer and Business Services by  rule consistent with the requirements for pro-
vider networks in ORS 743B.505; or
(b) An in-network provider is unable or unwilling to provide the service in a timely manner.
(9) An insurer may offer to a religious  employer a health benefit plan that does not include
coverage for contraceptives or abortion procedures that  are contrary to the religious employer’s
religious tenets only if the insurer notifies in writing all  employees who may be enrolled in the
health benefit plan of the contraceptives and procedures  the employer refuses to cover for religious
reasons.
(10) If the Department of Consumer and Business Services concludes that  enforcement of this
section may adversely affect the allocation of federal funds to this state, the department may grant
an exemption to the requirements but  only to the minimum extent necessary to ensure the continued
receipt of federal funds.
(11) An insurer that is subject  to this section shall make readily accessible to enrollees and
potential enrollees, in a consumer-friendly format, information about the coverage  of contraceptives
by each health benefit plan and the coverage of  other services, drugs, devices, products and proce-
dures described in this section. The insurer must provide the information:
(a) On the insurer’s website; and
(b) In writing upon request by an enrollee or potential enrollee.
(12) This section does not prohibit an  insurer from using reasonable medical management tech-
niques to determine the frequency, method, treatment or  setting for the coverage of services, drugs,
devices, products and procedures described in subsection (2) of this  section, other than coverage
required by subsection (2)(g) and (j) of this section, if the techniques:
(a) Are consistent with the coverage requirements of subsection (2) of this section; and
(b) Do not result in the wholesale or indiscriminate denial of coverage for a service.
(13) This section is exempt from ORS 743A.001.
REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH SERVICES
NOTE:
 Sections 13  through 18 were deleted by amendment. Subsequent sections were not re-
numbered.
Enrolled House Bill 2002 (HB 2002-C) Page 7
(Gender-Affirming Treatment)
SECTION 19. Section 20  of this 2023 Act is added to and made a part of the Insurance
Code.
SECTION 20. (1) As used in this section:
(a) “Carrier” has the meaning given that term in ORS 743B.005.
(b) “Gender-affirming treatment” means a procedure, service, drug, device or  product
that a physical or behavioral health  care provider prescribes to treat an individual for
incongruence between the individual’s gender identity and the individual’s sex assignment
at birth.
(c) “Health benefit plan” has the meaning given that term in ORS 743B.005.
(2) A carrier offering a health benefit plan in this state may not:
(a) Deny or limit coverage under the plan for gender-affirming treatment that is:
(A) Medically necessary as  determined by the physical or behavioral health care provider
who prescribes the treatment; and
(B) Prescribed in accordance with accepted standards of care.
(b) Apply categorical cosmetic or blanket exclusions to medically necessary gender-
affirming treatment.
(c) Exclude as a cosmetic service a medically necessary procedure  prescribed by a phys-
ical or behavioral health care provider  as gender-affirming treatment, including but not
limited to:
(A) Tracheal shave;
(B) Hair electrolysis;
(C) Facial feminization surgery or other facial gender-affirming treatment;
(D) Revisions to prior forms of gender-affirming treatment; and
(E) Any combination of gender-affirming treatment procedures.
(d) Issue an adverse benefit determination denying or limiting access to gender-affirming
treatment unless a physical or behavioral health care provider  with experience prescribing
or delivering gender-affirming treatment has first reviewed and approved  the denial of or the
limitation on access to the treatment.
(3) A carrier described in subsection (2) of this section must:
(a) Satisfy any network adequacy  standards under ORS 743B.505 related to gender-
affirming treatment providers; and
(b)(A) Contract with a network of gender-affirming treatment providers that is  sufficient
in numbers and geographic locations to ensure that  gender-affirming treatment services are
accessible to all enrollees without unreasonable delay; or
(B) Ensure that all enrollees have geographical access without unreasonable delay  to
out-of-network gender-affirming treatment services  with cost-sharing or other out-of-pocket
costs for the services no greater than the cost-sharing or other out-of-pocket costs for  the
services when furnished by an in-network provider.
(4) The Department of Consumer and Business Services shall:
(a) Evaluate compliance with this section in each examination or analysis of  the market
conduct of a carrier under ORS 731.300; and
(b) Adopt rules to implement the provisions of this section.
(5) This section is exempt from ORS 743A.001.
SECTION 21.
The Department of Consumer and  Business Services shall conduct a tar-
geted market conduct examination of all  carriers that are subject to the requirements of
section 20 of this 2023  Act to ensure compliance with section 20 of this 2023 Act. The exam-
inations must be completed no later than January 2, 2027.
SECTION 22. No later than December 31, 2026, the Department of Consumer and Busi-
ness Services shall report to the interim committees of the Legislative Assembly  related to
Enrolled House Bill 2002 (HB 2002-C) Page 8
health, in the manner provided  in ORS 192.245, on the implementation of section 20 of this
2023 Act.
SECTION 23. Section 24 of  this 2023 Act is added to and made a part of ORS chapter 414.
SECTION 24. (1) As used in this  section, “gender-affirming treatment” means a proce-
dure, service, drug, device or product that a physical or behavioral  health care provider
prescribes to  treat an individual for incongruence between the individual’s gender identity
and the individual’s sex assignment at birth.
(2) Notwithstanding ORS 414.065 and 414.690, medical assistance provided  to a member
of a coordinated care organization or a medical assistance recipient who is not enrolled in a
coordinated care organization shall include gender-affirming treatment.
(3) The Oregon Health Authority or a coordinated care organization may not:
(a) Deny or limit gender-affirming treatment that is:
(A) Medically necessary as  determined by the physical or behavioral health care provider
who prescribes the treatment; and
(B) Prescribed in accordance with accepted standards of care.
(b) Deny as a cosmetic  service a medically necessary procedure prescribed by a physical
or behavioral health care provider as  gender-affirming treatment, including but not limited
to:
(A) Tracheal shave;
(B) Hair electrolysis;
(C) Facial feminization surgery or other facial gender-affirming treatment;
(D) Revisions to prior forms of gender-affirming treatment; and
(E) Any combination of gender-affirming treatment procedures.
(c) Deny or  limit gender-affirming treatment unless a physical or behavioral health care
provider with experience prescribing or delivering gender-affirming treatment has first re-
viewed and approved the denial of or the limitation on the treatment.
(4) A coordinated care organization must:
(a) Contract with a network of gender-affirming  treatment providers that is sufficient in
numbers and geographic locations to meet the network adequacy standards prescribed by
ORS 414.609 (1); and
(b)(A) Ensure that gender-affirming treatment services are accessible to all  of the coor-
dinated care organization’s members without unreasonable delay; or
(B) Ensure  that all members have geographical access to non-contracting providers of
gender-affirming treatment services without unreasonable delay.
(5) The authority shall  monitor coordinated care organization compliance with the re-
quirements of this section and may adopt rules  necessary to carry out the provisions of this
section.
SECTION 25.
 ORS 243.144, as amended by section 2, chapter 72, Oregon Laws  2022, is amended
to read:
243.144. Benefit plans offered by the Public Employees’ Benefit Board that reimburse the cost
of medical and other health services  and supplies must comply with the requirements for health
benefit plan coverage described in:
(1) ORS 743A.058;
(2) ORS 743B.256;
(3) ORS 743B.420;
(4) ORS 743B.423;
(5) ORS 743B.601;
(6) ORS 743B.810; [ and]
(7) ORS 743B.287 (4) ; and
(8) Section 20 of this 2023 Act .
SECTION 26.
 ORS 243.877, as amended by section 3, chapter 72, Oregon Laws  2022, is amended
to read:
Enrolled House Bill 2002 (HB 2002-C) Page 9
243.877. Benefit plans offered by the Oregon Educators Benefit Board that reimburse the cost
of medical and other health services  and supplies must comply with the requirements for health
benefit plan coverage described in:
(1) ORS 743A.058;
(2) ORS 743B.256;
(3) ORS 743B.420;
(4) ORS 743B.423;
(5) ORS 743B.601;
(6) ORS 743B.810; [ and]
(7) ORS 743B.287 (4) ; and
(8) Section 20 of this 2023 Act .
(Contraceptives)
SECTION 27.
Section 28 of  this 2023 Act is added to and made a part of ORS chapter 414.
SECTION 28. (1) As  used in this section, “prescription contraceptive” means a drug or
device that requires a prescription and is approved by the United States  Food and Drug Ad-
ministration to prevent pregnancy.
(2) In determining the extent of  prescription drugs to be provided in medical assistance,
in accordance with ORS 414.065, the  Oregon Health Authority shall ensure payment for a
dispensing of prescription contraceptives, to an individual enrolled in the medical assistance
program, that is sufficient to last for a period of 12 calendar months.
NOTE: Sections 29 and 30 were deleted by amendment. Subsequent sections were  not renum-
bered.
PROTECTIONS FOR PROVIDERS AND INDIVIDUALS
(Malpractice insurance and licensing)
SECTION 31. An insurer that provides malpractice insurance for a health care  provider
for care provided in this state may not take any adverse action, including but  not limited to
sanctions, fines, penalties, rate increases or  denial or revocation of coverage, against a
health care provider authorized to provide care in this state if the adverse action is:
(1) Based solely on the health care provider’s  providing, authorizing, recommending,
aiding, assisting,  referring for or otherwise participating in a reproductive or gender-
affirming health care service that is lawful in this state but unlawful in  the jurisdiction in
which the health care provider provided the service,  so long as the service provided was
performed in accordance with the standard of care applicable to the service; or
(2) A result of an adverse action taken against the health care provider’s  license issued
by another state that resulted solely from the  health care provider’s providing, authorizing,
recommending, aiding, assisting, referring  for or otherwise participating in a reproductive
or gender-affirming health care service  that is lawful in this state but provided to a resident
of a jurisdiction in which the service is unlawful or is  unlawful in the jurisdiction in which
the health care provider provided the service, so  long as the service provided was performed
in accordance with the standard of care applicable to the service.
SECTION 31a.  ORS 675.070 is amended to read:
675.070. (1) If any  of the grounds enumerated in subsection (2) of this section exist, the Oregon
Board of Psychology may impose any of the following sanctions:
(a) Deny a license to an applicant;
(b) Refuse to renew the license of a psychologist or psychologist associate;
(c) Suspend the license of a psychologist or psychologist associate for a period of  not less than
one year;
(d) Issue a letter of reprimand;
Enrolled House Bill 2002 (HB 2002-C) Page 10
(e) Impose  probation with authority to restrict the scope of practice of a psychologist or psy-
chologist associate or require practice under supervision;
(f) Revoke the license of a psychologist or psychologist associate; or
(g) Impose a civil penalty as described in subsection (3) of this section.
(2) Subject to subsection (7)  of this section,  the board may impose a sanction listed in sub-
section (1) of this section against a psychologist or psychologist  associate or applicant, or, if appli-
cable, an unlicensed person found in violation of ORS 675.010 to 675.150, when, in  the judgment of
the board, the person:
(a) Has an impairment as defined in ORS 676.303;
(b) Has been convicted of violation of a law relating to controlled substances;
(c) Has been convicted of a felony or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude;
(d) Is guilty of immoral or unprofessional conduct or of gross negligence in the practice of  psy-
chology, including but not limited to:
(A) Conduct or practice contrary to recognized standard of ethics of the  psychological profes-
sion or conduct  or practice that constitutes a danger to the health or safety of a patient or the
public, or conduct, practice or a condition that adversely affects a  psychologist or psychologist
associate’s ability to practice psychology safely and skillfully.
(B) Willful ordering or performing of unnecessary  tests or studies, administration of unnecessary
treatment, failure to obtain consultations or perform referrals  when failing to do so is not consistent
with the standard of care,  or otherwise ordering or performing a psychological service or treatment
that is contrary to recognized standards of practice of the psychological profession;
(e) Has practiced or attempted to practice medicine without being licensed to do so;
(f) Has obtained or attempted to obtain a license under ORS 675.010 to 675.150 by fraud or  ma-
terial misrepresentation;
(g) Has impersonated a licensed psychologist or  psychologist associate or has allowed another
person to use the license of the psychologist;
(h) Has violated a provision of  ORS 675.010 to 675.150 or 675.850 or a provision of the code of
professional conduct formulated under ORS 675.110 (13);
(i) Has obtained a fee or payment from a patient or third  party payer through fraud or inten-
tional misrepresentation; or
(j) Notwithstanding ORS 670.280, has been convicted of a sex crime  as defined in ORS 163A.005
or has been convicted in another state or jurisdiction of a crime that is  substantially equivalent to
a sex crime as defined in ORS 163A.005.
(3) The board may impose a civil penalty under subsection (1) of this section:
(a) In an amount not to exceed $5,000; or
(b) In an amount not to exceed $10,000, if any of the following conditions exist:
(A) The conduct giving  rise to the penalty had a serious detrimental effect on the health or
safety of another person;
(B) The person subject to the penalty has a history  of discipline for the same or similar conduct;
(C) The conduct giving rise to the penalty involves a willful or reckless disregard of the law;
(D) The conduct giving rise to the penalty was perpetrated against a minor,  an elderly person
or a person with a disability; or
(E) The person subject to  the penalty violated ORS 675.020 by practicing psychology or repres-
enting that the person is a psychologist without having a license.
(4) Except as provided in subsection  (7) of this section,  if a conviction described in sub-
section (2) of this section is used as grounds for denial, refusal, suspension, revocation,  reprimand,
probation or imposition of a civil penalty, a certified copy of the record of the conviction shall  be
conclusive evidence.
(5) The board may  license an applicant or renew or restore a license suspended or revoked un-
der subsection (2)(a) of  this section due to a mental health condition if the board determines that
the applicant or former licensed psychologist  or former psychologist associate no longer has an
impairment due to a mental health condition.
Enrolled House Bill 2002 (HB 2002-C) Page 11
(6) Except as provided in subsection  (7) of this section,  license suspension or revocation in
another state is grounds for license denial or disciplinary action by the board.
(7) The board may not suspend or revoke a person’s  license to practice psychology, or
refuse to grant a license to practice psychology to a person, because of  a conviction or li-
cense suspension or revocation resulting solely from the person’s  provision of psychological
services relating to reproductive or gender-affirming health care that  are otherwise lawful
in this state but unlawful in  the jurisdiction in which the person provided the services, so
long as the services provided were performed in accordance with the standard of care  appli-
cable to the services.
SECTION 31b. ORS 675.540 is amended to read:
675.540. (1) Subject to subsection (8) of this section,  the State Board of Licensed Social
Workers may impose any or all of the  sanctions specified in subsection (2) of this section, upon
proof, after a hearing pursuant to the provisions  of ORS chapter 183 relating to a contested case,
that a regulated social worker:
(a) Has been convicted in this or any other state of a crime that is a felony in this state;
(b) Has been convicted of a felony in a federal court;
(c) Is unable to perform the practice of social work by reason of physical illness;
(d) Has an impairment as defined in ORS 676.303;
(e) Has been grossly negligent or  has engaged in unprofessional conduct in the practice of social
work;
(f) Has violated any provision of ORS 675.510 to 675.600  or 675.850 or any rule adopted under
ORS 675.600; or
(g) Notwithstanding ORS 670.280,  has been convicted of a sex crime as defined in ORS 163A.005
or has been convicted  in another state or jurisdiction of a crime that is substantially equivalent to
a sex crime as defined in ORS 163A.005.
(2) Pursuant to the provisions of subsection (1) of this section, the board may:
(a) Deny, suspend,  revoke or refuse to renew any authorization to practice regulated social work
issued under ORS 675.510 to 675.600.
(b) Place a regulated social worker on probation and impose conditions  or limits on the scope
of practice of a regulated social worker.
(c) Impose a civil penalty not to exceed $3,000 for each violation.
(3) The expiration, or voluntary surrender by a regulated social worker,  of an authorization to
practice regulated social work does not deprive  the board of jurisdiction to proceed with any in-
vestigation of, or any action or disciplinary proceedings against, the regulated social worker.
(4) Information that the board obtains as  part of an investigation into the conduct of a regulated
social worker or an applicant for an authorization to  practice regulated social work or as part of
a contested case proceeding, consent order or stipulated agreement  involving the conduct of a reg-
ulated social worker or applicant, is confidential as provided under ORS 676.175.
(5) Subject to the provisions of ORS chapter 183  relating to a contested case, the board may
impose a civil penalty in an amount  up to $5,000 upon proof that, after a person’s authorization to
practice regulated social work has been revoked by the board, the person has:
(a) Engaged in the practice of clinical social work; or
(b) Represented that the person is a regulated social worker.
(6) Subject to the provisions of ORS chapter 183  relating to a contested case, the board may
impose a civil penalty of up to $3,000 upon proof that a person who is not a regulated  social worker
has:
(a) Represented that the person is a regulated social worker; or
(b) Used the title “social worker” or any title, words or abbreviations that indicate that  the
person has an authorization to practice regulated social work in violation of ORS 675.520.
(7) Subject to the provisions of ORS chapter 183  relating to a contested case, the board may
impose a civil penalty of up to $5,000 upon proof that  a person who is not a clinical social worker
licensed under ORS 675.530 or a clinical social work associate certified under ORS 675.537 has:
Enrolled House Bill 2002 (HB 2002-C) Page 12
(a) Engaged in the practice of clinical social work, unless the person is permitted to practice
clinical social work under ORS 675.523; or
(b) Represented that the person is a clinical social worker or clinical social work associate.
(8)(a) As used in this section, “social work services”  means clinical social work, the
practice of baccalaureate social work, the practice of  master’s social work or the practice
of social work.
(b) The board may not suspend or revoke a person’s authorization  to practice regulated
social work, or refuse  to grant a person an authorization to practice regulated social work,
because of a conviction  or license suspension or revocation resulting solely from the person’s
provision of social work services  relating to reproductive or gender-affirming health care
that are otherwise lawful in this  state but unlawful in the jurisdiction in which the person
provided the services, so long as the  services provided were performed in accordance with
the standard of care applicable to the services.
SECTION 31c.
 ORS 675.745 is amended to read:
675.745. (1)  The Oregon Board of Licensed Professional Counselors and Therapists may deny,
suspend, revoke or refuse to issue or to renew any  license issued under ORS 675.715 to 675.835 upon
proof that the applicant for licensure or the licensee:
(a) Except as provided in subsection  (8) of this section,  has been convicted of violating ORS
675.825 or of a crime  in this or any other state or territory or against the federal government that
brings into question the competence of the licensee in the role of a counselor or a therapist;
(b) Is unable to perform the practice of professional counseling or  marriage and family therapy
by reason of physical illness;
(c) Has an impairment as defined in ORS 676.303;
(d) Has been grossly negligent in  the practice of professional counseling or marriage and family
therapy;
(e) Has violated any provision of ORS 675.715 to 675.835 or 675.850;
(f) Has violated any rule of the board pertaining to the licensure of professional counselors or
licensed marriage and family therapists;
(g) Has failed to file a professional disclosure statement or has filed a  false, incomplete or mis-
leading professional disclosure statement;
(h) Has practiced outside the  scope of activities, including administering, constructing or inter-
preting tests or diagnosing or treating mental disorders,  for which the licensee has individual
training and qualification;
(i) Except as provided  in subsection (8) of this section,  has been disciplined by a state
mental health licensing board or program in this  or any other state for violation of competency or
conduct standards; or
(j) Notwithstanding ORS 670.280, has been convicted of a sex crime  as defined in ORS 163A.005
or has been convicted  in another state or jurisdiction of a crime that is substantially equivalent to
a sex crime as defined in ORS 163A.005.
(2)(a) The board may  reprimand or impose probation on a licensee or a registered associate upon
proof of any of the grounds for discipline provided in subsection (1) of this section.
(b) If the board elects to place a licensee or a  registered associate on probation, the board may
impose:
(A) Restrictions on the scope of practice of the licensee or associate;
(B) Requirements for specific training;
(C) Supervision of the practice of the licensee or associate; or
(D) Other conditions the board finds necessary for the protection of the public.
(3) The board may initiate injunctive proceedings in any circuit court against persons violating
any provision of ORS 675.715 to 675.835 or any rules adopted by the board.
(4) Pursuant to ORS 183.745,  the board may impose a civil penalty of not more than $2,500 for
each ground for discipline listed in subsection (1) of this section found by the board.
Enrolled House Bill 2002 (HB 2002-C) Page 13
(5) Pursuant to ORS 183.745, the board may impose a civil penalty of not  more than $2,500 for
each violation of or failure to observe any limitation or condition imposed by the board on  the
licensee’s or registered associate’s practice under subsection (2) of this section.
(6) Information that the board  obtains as part of an investigation into licensee or applicant
conduct or as part of a contested case proceeding, consent order or stipulated  agreement involving
licensee or applicant conduct is confidential as provided under ORS 676.175.
(7) In addition to the actions authorized by subsections (1) and (2) of this  section, the board may
take such disciplinary action as the board in its discretion finds proper, including but  not limited
to the assessment of the costs of the disciplinary process.
(8) The board may not suspend or revoke a person’s license or  registration to practice
professional counseling or marriage and family therapy, or refuse  to grant a license or reg-
istration to practice professional counseling  or marriage and family therapy to a person,
because of a conviction  or disciplinary action resulting solely from the person’s provision of
professional counseling services or marriage and family therapy services relating to  repro-
ductive or gender-affirming health care that are otherwise lawful in this  state but unlawful
in the jurisdiction in which the person provided the services, so  long as the services provided
were performed in accordance with the standard of care applicable to the services.
SECTION 32.  ORS 677.190 is amended to read:
677.190. The Oregon Medical Board  may refuse to grant, or may suspend or revoke , a license
to practice for any of the following reasons:
(1)(a) Unprofessional or dishonorable conduct.
(b) For purposes of this subsection, the use  of an alternative medical treatment shall not by it-
self constitute unprofessional conduct. For purposes of this paragraph:
(A) “Alternative medical treatment” means:
(i) A treatment that the treating physician,  based on the physician’s professional experience, has
an objective basis to believe has a reasonable probability for  effectiveness in its intended use even
if the treatment is outside  recognized scientific guidelines, is unproven, is no longer used as a gen-
erally recognized or standard  treatment or lacks the approval of the United States Food and Drug
Administration;
(ii) A treatment that  is supported for specific usages or outcomes by at least one other physician
licensed by the Oregon Medical Board; and
(iii) A treatment that poses  no greater risk to a patient than the generally recognized or
standard treatment.
(B) “Alternative  medical treatment” does not include use by a physician of controlled substances
in the treatment of a  person for chemical dependency resulting from the use of controlled sub-
stances.
(2) Employing any person to solicit patients  for the licensee. However, a managed care organ-
ization, independent practice association, preferred provider organization or other medical  service
provider organization may contract for patients on behalf of physicians.
(3) Representing to a patient  that a manifestly incurable condition of sickness, disease or injury
can be cured.
(4) Obtaining any fee by fraud or misrepresentation.
(5) Willfully or negligently divulging a professional secret without the written consent  of the
patient.
(6)(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this subsection,  conviction  of any offense
punishable by incarceration in a Department of Corrections institution or in a federal prison, subject
to ORS 670.280. A  copy of the record of conviction, certified to by the clerk of the court entering
the conviction, shall be conclusive evidence of the conviction.
(b) The board may not suspend or revoke a person’s license, or refuse to grant  a license
to a person, because of a conviction  resulting solely from the person’s provision of a repro-
ductive or gender-affirming health care service that is  otherwise lawful in this state but
Enrolled House Bill 2002 (HB 2002-C) Page 14
unlawful in the jurisdiction in which  the person provided the service, so long as the service
provided was performed in accordance with the standard of care applicable to the service.
(7) Impairment as defined in ORS 676.303.
(8) Fraud or misrepresentation in applying for or  procuring a license to practice in this state,
or in connection with applying for or procuring registration.
(9) Making statements that the licensee knows, or with the exercise of reasonable care  should
know, are false or misleading, regarding skill or the efficacy or value of the  medicine, treatment or
remedy prescribed or administered by the licensee or at  the direction of the licensee in the treat-
ment of any disease or other condition of the human body or mind.
(10) Impersonating another licensee licensed under this chapter or permitting or allowing any
person to use the license.
(11) Aiding or abetting  the practice of medicine or podiatry by a person not licensed by the
board, when the licensee knows, or with the exercise  of reasonable care should know, that the
person is not licensed.
(12) Using the name of the licensee under the designation “doctor,” “Dr.,”  “D.O.” or “M.D.,”
“D.P.M.,” “Acupuncturist,” “P.A.” or any similar designation in any form of advertising that  is
untruthful or is intended to deceive or mislead the public.
(13) Gross negligence or repeated negligence in the practice of medicine or podiatry.
(14) Incapacity to practice medicine or podiatry. If the board  has evidence indicating incapacity,
the board may order a licensee  to submit to a standardized competency examination. The licensee
shall have access to the result of the examination and to the criteria used for grading and evaluat-
ing the examination. If the examination is given orally, the licensee shall have the right to have the
examination recorded.
(15)(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this subsection,  disciplinary action by another
state of a license to practice, based upon acts by the  licensee similar to acts described in this sec-
tion. A certified copy of the record of the disciplinary action of the state is conclusive evidence
thereof.
(b) The board may not suspend or revoke a person’s license, or refuse to grant  a license
to a person, because of a disciplinary action by another state  resulting solely from the
person’s provision of a reproductive  or gender-affirming health care service that is otherwise
lawful in this state but unlawful  in the jurisdiction in which the person provided the service,
so long as the service provided was performed in accordance  with the standard of care ap-
plicable to the service.
(16) Failing to designate  the degree appearing on the license under circumstances described in
ORS 677.184 (3).
(17) Willfully violating any provision of this  chapter or any rule adopted by the board, board
order, or failing to comply with a board request pursuant to ORS 677.320.
(18) Failing to report the change of the location of practice of the licensee as required  by ORS
677.172.
(19) Imprisonment as provided in ORS 677.225.
(20) Making a fraudulent claim.
(21)(a) Performing psychosurgery.
(b) For purposes of this subsection and ORS 426.385, “psychosurgery” means any operation  de-
signed to produce an irreversible lesion or destroy brain  tissue for the primary purpose of altering
the thoughts, emotions or behavior of a human being. “Psychosurgery” does not include  procedures
which may produce an irreversible lesion or destroy brain  tissues when undertaken to cure well-
defined disease states such as brain tumor, epileptic foci and certain chronic pain syndromes.
(22) Refusing an invitation for an informal interview  with the board requested under ORS
677.415.
(23) Violation of the federal Controlled Substances Act.
Enrolled House Bill 2002 (HB 2002-C) Page 15
(24) Prescribing controlled substances without a legitimate medical purpose, or  prescribing
controlled substances without following accepted procedures for examination  of patients, or pre-
scribing controlled substances without following accepted procedures for record keeping.
(25) Providing written documentation for purposes of ORS 475C.783 without having legitimately
diagnosed a debilitating medical condition, as defined in ORS 475C.777,  or without having followed
accepted procedures for the examination of patients or for keeping records.
(26) Failure by the licensee to report to the board any adverse action taken  against the licensee
by another licensing jurisdiction or any peer review  body, health care institution, professional or
medical society or association, governmental agency, law enforcement agency  or court for acts or
conduct similar to acts or  conduct that would constitute grounds for disciplinary action as described
in this section.
(27) Failure by the licensee to notify the board of the licensee’s  voluntary resignation from the
staff of a health care institution or voluntary limitation of a licensee’s staff privileges at  the insti-
tution if that action occurs while the licensee is  under investigation by the institution or a com-
mittee thereof for any reason related to medical incompetence, unprofessional conduct, physical
incapacity or impairment.
SECTION 33.
 ORS 677.225 is amended to read:
677.225. (1) A person’s license issued under this chapter is suspended automatically if:
(a) The licensee is adjudged to be a person with mental  illness under ORS 426.130 or is admitted
on a voluntary basis to a treatment facility for  mental illness that affects the ability of the licensee
to safely practice medicine and if the licensee’s residence in the hospital exceeds 25 consecutive
days; or
(b) Except as provided in subsection (4) of this section,  the licensee is an adult in custody
in a penal institution.
(2)(a) The clerk of the court ordering commitment or incarceration under subsection (1)(a)  or (b)
of this section shall cause to be mailed to the  Oregon Medical Board, as soon as possible, a certified
copy  of  the court order. [ No fees are chargeable by ] The clerk may not charge a fee  for performing
the duties prescribed by this paragraph.
(b) The administrator of the hospital  to which a person with a license issued under this chapter
has voluntarily applied for admission  shall cause to be mailed to the board as soon as possible, a
certified copy of the record of the voluntary admission of [ such] the  person.
(c) Written evidence received from the supervisory authority of a penal or  mental institution
that the licensee is an adult in custody or  patient therein is prima facie evidence for the purpose
of subsection (1)(a) or (b) of this section.
(3) A suspension under this section may be terminated by the board when:
(a)(A) The board receives evidence satisfactory to the board that the licensee is not a  person
with mental illness as defined in ORS 426.005; or
(B) The board receives evidence satisfactory to the board that the licensee is  no longer
incarcerated; and
(b) The board is satisfied, with due regard for  the public interest, that the licensee’s privilege
to practice may be restored.
(4) This section does not apply to a licensee who is an adult in custody in a penal insti-
tution if the sole reason for incarceration is the licensee’s performance of, or assistance  in
the performance of, a reproductive or gender-affirming health  care service that is otherwise
lawful in this state but  unlawful in the jurisdiction in which the licensee provided, or assisted
in the provision of, the service, so  long as the service provided was performed in accordance
with the standard of care applicable to the service.
SECTION 34.
Section 35 of this 2023 Act is added to  and made a part of ORS 678.010 to
678.410.
SECTION 35. The Oregon State Board of  Nursing may not suspend or revoke a person’s
license or refuse to grant a license to a person, because of  a conviction or disciplinary action
by another state resulting solely from the person’s provision of a reproductive  or gender-
Enrolled House Bill 2002 (HB 2002-C) Page 16
affirming health care service that is otherwise lawful in this state but  unlawful in the ju-
risdiction in which the person provided the service,  so long as the service provided was
performed in accordance with the standard of care applicable to the service.
SECTION 36. ORS 678.111, as amended by section 9, chapter 38, Oregon Laws  2022, is amended
to read:
678.111. In the manner prescribed in ORS chapter  183 for a contested case , and except as
provided in section 35 of this 2023 Act :
(1) The Oregon State Board of Nursing may refuse to issue a license to practice nursing by ex-
amination or indorsement or  a nurse internship license or may revoke or suspend a license, issue
a limited license, censure or reprimand or place on probation, subject to  any conditions imposed by
the board, a person issued a license, for any of the following causes:
(a) Conviction of the licensee of crime where the crime bears demonstrable relationship  to the
practice of nursing. A copy of the record of the conviction, certified to by the clerk  of the court
entering the conviction, shall be conclusive evidence of the conviction.
(b) Gross incompetence or gross  negligence of the licensee in the practice of nursing at the level
for which the licensee is licensed.
(c) Any  willful fraud or misrepresentation in applying for or procuring a license or renewal of
a license.
(d) Fraud or deceit of the licensee in the practice of nursing or  in admission to the practice of
nursing.
(e) Impairment as defined in ORS 676.303.
(f) Conduct derogatory to the standards of nursing.
(g) Violation of  any provision of ORS 678.010 to 678.448 or rules adopted under ORS 678.010 to
678.448.
(h) Revocation or suspension of a license to practice nursing by any  state or territory of the
United States,  or any foreign jurisdiction authorized to issue nursing credentials whether or not that
license or credential was relied upon  in issuing that license in this state. A certified copy of the
order of revocation or suspension shall be conclusive evidence of the revocation or suspension.
(i) Physical condition that  makes the licensee unable to conduct safely the practice for which
the licensee is licensed.
(j) Violation of any condition imposed by the board when issuing a limited license.
(2) A license may  be denied, suspended or revoked for the reasons stated in subsection (1) of this
section.
(3) A license in inactive  status may be denied, suspended or revoked for the reasons stated in
subsection (1) of this section.
(4) A license in retired  status may be denied, suspended or revoked for any cause stated in
subsection (1) of this section.
SECTION 37.
 ORS 685.110 is amended to read:
685.110. The Oregon Board of Naturopathic Medicine may refuse to grant a license, may suspend
or revoke a license, may limit a license, may impose probation,  may issue a letter of reprimand and
may impose a civil penalty not to exceed $5,000 for each offense for any of the following reasons:
(1) Using fraud or deception in securing a license.
(2) Impersonating another physician.
(3) Practicing naturopathic medicine under an assumed name.
(4) Performing an abortion.
(5) Being convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude.
(6) Any other reason that renders the applicant or licensee unfit to perform the  duties of a
naturopathic physician.
(7) Being convicted of  a crime relating to practice of naturopathic medicine , unless the con-
viction is solely the result of providing a reproductive or gender-affirming health care service
that is otherwise lawful in this  state but unlawful in the jurisdiction in which the person
Enrolled House Bill 2002 (HB 2002-C) Page 17
provided the service, so long as the service provided was performed in accordance  with the
standard of care applicable to the service .
(8) Committing negligence related to the practice of naturopathic medicine.
(9) Having an impairment as defined in ORS 676.303.
(10) Prescribing or dispensing drugs outside the scope of practice.
(11) Obtaining a fee through fraud or misrepresentation.
(12) Committing gross or repeated malpractice.
(13) Representing to  a patient that a manifestly incurable condition of sickness, disease or injury
can be permanently cured.
(14) Engaging in any conduct or practice contrary to a recognized  standard of ethics of the
profession or any  conduct or practice that does or might constitute a danger to the health or safety
of a patient or the public or any conduct, practice or condition that does or  might adversely affect
a physician’s ability safely and skillfully to practice naturopathic medicine.
(15) Willfully and consistently utilizing any  naturopathic service, X-ray equipment or treatment
contrary to recognized standards of practice of the naturopathic profession.
(16) Failing to notify the board within 30 days of a change  in the location of practice or of
mailing address.
(17) Attempting to practice naturopathic medicine or practicing or claiming to practice
naturopathic medicine or any of its components in this state without first complying with  the pro-
visions of this chapter.
(18) Having a license to practice naturopathic medicine in another  jurisdiction suspended or
revoked , unless  the suspension or revocation is solely the result of providing a reproductive
or gender-affirming health care service that is otherwise lawful in  this state but unlawful in
the jurisdiction in which the person provided the service,  so long as the service was per-
formed in accordance with the standard of care applicable to the service .
(19) Employing unlicensed persons to practice naturopathic medicine.
(20) Practicing natural childbirth without first obtaining a certificate of special competency.
(21) Failing to respond in a timely  manner to a request for information regarding a complaint
or the investigation of a complaint by the board.
(22) Failing to pay a civil penalty in the time specified by the order imposing the penalty.
(23) Violating any provision of this chapter or rules adopted by the board.
SECTION 38.
 ORS 689.405 is amended to read:
689.405. (1) The State Board of Pharmacy  may refuse to issue or renew, or may suspend, revoke
or restrict the license of any person  or the certificate of registration of any drug outlet upon one
or more of the following grounds:
(a) Unprofessional conduct as that term is defined by the rules of the board.
(b) Repeated or gross negligence.
(c) Incapacity of a nature that prevents a person from engaging in the activity for  which the
person is licensed with reasonable skill, competence and safety to the public.
(d) Impairment as defined in ORS 676.303.
(e) Subject to subsection (4) of this section,  being found guilty by the board of a violation
of subparagraph (B) of this paragraph,  or by a court of competent jurisdiction of one or more of the
following:
(A) A felony, as defined by the laws of this state; or
(B) Violations of the pharmacy or drug laws of this state or  rules pertaining thereto, or of
statutes, rules or regulations of any other state, or of the federal government.
(f) Fraud or intentional misrepresentation by  a licensee or registrant in securing or attempting
to secure the issuance or renewal of a license.
(g) Engaging or aiding and abetting an individual to engage in  the practice of pharmacy without
a license, or falsely using the title of pharmacist.
(h) Aiding  and abetting an individual in performing the duties of a pharmacy technician without
licensing.
Enrolled House Bill 2002 (HB 2002-C) Page 18
(i) Being  found by the board to be in violation of any of the provisions of ORS 435.010 to 435.130,
453.025, 453.045, 475.035 to 475.190, 475.744, 475.752 to 475.980 or this chapter or rules adopted
pursuant to ORS 435.010 to 435.130, 453.025, 453.045, 475.035 to 475.190, 475.744, 475.752 to  475.980
and this chapter.
(j) Disciplinary action by another state regarding a license, based upon  acts by the licensee
similar to acts described in this subsection , unless the disciplinary action resulted solely from
the licensee’s provision of  a reproductive or gender-affirming health care service that is
otherwise lawful in this state but unlawful in the jurisdiction in which  the licensee provided
the service, so long as the service provided was performed in accordance  with the standard
of care applicable to the service . A certified copy of the record  of disciplinary action of the state
taking the disciplinary action is conclusive evidence thereof.
(2) Upon receipt of a complaint under this chapter, the board shall  conduct an investigation as
described under ORS 676.165.
(3) Actions taken under subsection (1) of this section shall be considered a contested  case under
ORS chapter 183.
(4) The board may not suspend or revoke a person’s license, or refuse to grant a license
to a person, because of a conviction resulting solely from  the person’s provision of a repro-
ductive or gender-affirming health care service that  is otherwise lawful in this state but
unlawful in the jurisdiction in which the person provided the service,  so long as the service
provided was performed in accordance with the standard of care applicable to the service.
(Confidentiality)
SECTION 39.  ORS 192.345 is amended to read:
192.345. The following public records are  exempt from disclosure under ORS 192.311 to 192.478
unless the public interest requires disclosure in the particular instance:
(1) Records of a  public body pertaining to litigation to which the public body is a party if the
complaint has been filed, or if the complaint has not  been filed, if the public body shows that such
litigation is reasonably likely to occur. This exemption  does not apply to litigation which has been
concluded, and nothing in this subsection shall limit any  right or opportunity granted by discovery
or deposition statutes to a party to litigation or potential litigation.
(2) Trade secrets. “Trade secrets,” as used in this section, may include, but are not  limited to,
any formula, plan, pattern, process, tool, mechanism, compound,  procedure, production data, or
compilation of information which is not patented, which is  known only to certain individuals within
an organization and which is  used in a business it conducts, having actual or potential commercial
value, and which gives its user an opportunity to obtain a business advantage over competitors who
do not know or use it.
(3) Investigatory information compiled for  criminal law purposes. The record of an arrest or the
report  of  a crime shall be disclosed unless and only for so long as there is a clear need to delay
disclosure in the course of  a specific investigation, including the need to protect the complaining
party or the victim. Nothing in  this subsection shall limit any right constitutionally guaranteed,
or granted by statute,  to disclosure or discovery in criminal cases. For purposes of this subsection,
the record of an arrest or the report of a crime includes, but is not limited to:
(a) The arrested person’s name, age, residence, employment, marital status and  similar bi-
ographical information;
(b) The offense with which the arrested person is charged;
(c) The conditions of release pursuant to ORS 135.230 to 135.290;
(d) The identity of and biographical information concerning both complaining party and victim;
(e) The identity of the investigating and arresting agency and the length of the investigation;
(f) The circumstances of  arrest, including time, place, resistance, pursuit and weapons used; and
(g) Such information as may be  necessary to enlist public assistance in apprehending fugitives
from justice.
Enrolled House Bill 2002 (HB 2002-C) Page 19
(4) Test questions, scoring keys, and other data  used to administer a licensing examination,
employment, academic or other examination or testing procedure before the  examination is given
and if the examination is to be  used again. Records establishing procedures for and instructing
persons administering, grading or evaluating an examination  or testing procedure are included in
this exemption, to the extent that disclosure would create a risk that the result might be affected.
(5) Information consisting of  production records, sale or purchase records or catch records, or
similar business records of a private concern or enterprise,  required by law to be submitted to or
inspected  by  a governmental body to allow it to determine fees or assessments payable or to estab-
lish production quotas, and the amounts of  such fees or assessments payable or paid, to the extent
that such information is in a form  that would permit identification of the individual concern or en-
terprise. This exemption does not include records submitted by long term care facilities as defined
in ORS 442.015 to the state  for purposes of reimbursement of expenses or determining fees for pa-
tient care. Nothing in this subsection shall limit the use that can be  made of such information for
regulatory purposes or its admissibility in any enforcement proceeding.
(6) Information relating to the appraisal of real estate prior to its acquisition.
(7) The names and  signatures of employees who sign authorization cards or petitions for the
purpose of requesting representation or decertification elections.
(8) Investigatory information relating to any complaint filed under ORS 659A.820 or 659A.825,
until such time as the complaint is resolved under ORS 659A.835,  or a final order is issued under
ORS 659A.850.
(9) Investigatory information relating to any  complaint or charge filed under ORS 243.676 and
663.180.
(10) Records, reports and other information received or compiled by the Director of the  De-
partment of Consumer and Business Services under ORS 697.732.
(11) Information concerning the location of archaeological sites or  objects as those terms are
defined in ORS 358.905, except if the governing body of an Indian tribe requests  the information and
the need for the information is related to that Indian tribe’s cultural or  religious activities. This
exemption does not include information relating to a site  that is all or part of an existing, commonly
known and publicized tourist facility or attraction.
(12) A personnel discipline action, or materials or documents supporting that action.
(13) Fish and wildlife information:
(a) Developed pursuant to ORS 496.004, 496.172 and 498.026 or ORS 496.192 and 564.100, re-
garding the habitat, location or population of any threatened species or endangered species; or
(b) Described in section 2, chapter 532, Oregon Laws 2019.
(14) Writings prepared by or under the direction of faculty of public  educational institutions, in
connection with research, until publicly released, copyrighted or patented.
(15) Computer programs  developed or purchased by or for any public body for its own use. As
used in  this subsection, “computer program” means a series of instructions or statements which
permit the functioning of a computer system in a manner designed  to provide storage, retrieval and
manipulation of data from such computer system, and any associated  documentation and source
material that  explain how to operate the computer program. “Computer program” does not include:
(a) The original data, including but not limited to numbers, text, voice, graphics and images;
(b) Analyses, compilations and other manipulated forms of the original data produced  by use of
the program; or
(c) The mathematical and statistical formulas which would be used if  the manipulated forms of
the original data were to be produced manually.
(16) Data and information provided by participants to mediation under ORS 36.256.
(17) Investigatory information relating to any complaint or charge  filed under ORS chapter 654,
until a final administrative  determination is made or, if a citation is issued, until an employer re-
ceives notice of any citation.
(18) Specific operational plans  in connection with an anticipated threat to individual or public
safety for deployment and use  of personnel and equipment, prepared or used by a public body, if
Enrolled House Bill 2002 (HB 2002-C) Page 20
public disclosure of the  plans would endanger an individual’s life or physical safety or jeopardize a
law enforcement activity.
(19)(a) Audits or audit reports required of a telecommunications carrier. As  used in this para-
graph, “audit or audit report” means any external or internal  audit or audit report pertaining to a
telecommunications carrier, as defined in ORS 133.721, or pertaining to a corporation having an af-
filiated interest, as defined  in ORS 759.390, with a telecommunications carrier that is intended to
make the operations of the entity more efficient,  accurate or compliant with applicable rules, pro-
cedures or standards, that may include self-criticism and that has been  filed by the telecommuni-
cations carrier or affiliate under compulsion of state  law. “Audit or audit report” does not mean an
audit of a cost study that would be discoverable in a  contested case proceeding and that is not
subject to a protective order; and
(b) Financial statements. As used  in this paragraph, “financial statement” means a financial
statement of a nonregulated corporation having an affiliated  interest, as defined in ORS 759.390,
with a telecommunications carrier, as defined in ORS 133.721.
(20) The residence address of an elector  if authorized under ORS 247.965 and subject to ORS
247.967.
(21) The following records, communications and information submitted to a housing authority
as defined in ORS  456.005, or to an urban renewal agency as defined in ORS 457.010, by applicants
for and recipients of loans, grants and tax credits:
(a) Personal and corporate financial statements and information, including tax returns;
(b) Credit reports;
(c) Project appraisals, excluding appraisals obtained in the course of transactions involving  an
interest in real estate that is acquired, leased, rented,  exchanged, transferred or otherwise disposed
of as part of the project, but only after the transactions have closed and are concluded;
(d) Market studies and analyses;
(e) Articles of incorporation, partnership agreements and operating agreements;
(f) Commitment letters;
(g) Project pro forma statements;
(h) Project cost certifications and cost data;
(i) Audits;
(j) Project tenant correspondence requested to be confidential;
(k) Tenant files relating to certification; and
(L) Housing assistance payment requests.
(22) Records or information that, if disclosed, would allow a person to:
(a) Gain unauthorized access to buildings or other property;
(b) Identify those areas of structural  or operational vulnerability that would permit unlawful
disruption to, or interference with, services; or
(c) Disrupt, interfere with  or gain unauthorized access to public funds or to information proc-
essing, communication or telecommunication systems, including the  information contained in the
systems, that are used or operated by a public body.
(23) Records or information that would reveal or  otherwise identify security measures, or
weaknesses or potential weaknesses in security measures, taken or recommended  to be taken to
protect:
(a) An individual;
(b) Buildings or other property;
(c) Information  processing, communication or telecommunication systems, including the infor-
mation contained in the systems; or
(d) Those operations of the  Oregon State Lottery the security of which are subject to study and
evaluation under ORS 461.180 (6).
(24) Personal information held by or under the direction  of officials of the Oregon Health and
Science University or a public university listed in ORS 352.002 about a person  who has or who is
interested in donating money or property to the  Oregon Health and Science University or a public
Enrolled House Bill 2002 (HB 2002-C) Page 21
university, if the information is related to the family of the person,  personal assets of the person
or is incidental information not related to the donation.
(25) The home address,  professional address and telephone number of a person who has or who
is interested in donating money or property to a public university listed in ORS 352.002.
(26) Records of the name  and address of a person who files a report with or pays an assessment
to a commodity commission  established under ORS 576.051 to 576.455, the Oregon Beef Council
created under ORS 577.210 or the Oregon Wheat Commission created under ORS 578.030.
(27) Information provided to, obtained by or used by a public body to authorize, originate,  re-
ceive or authenticate a transfer of funds, including but not limited  to a credit card number, payment
card expiration date, password, financial institution account number and financial institution routing
number.
(28) Social Security numbers as provided in ORS 107.840.
(29) The electronic mail address of a student who attends a public university  listed in ORS
352.002 or Oregon Health and Science University.
(30) The name,  home address, professional address or location of a person that is engaged in,
or that provides goods or services for,  medical research at Oregon Health and Science University
that is  conducted using animals other than rodents. This subsection does not apply to Oregon Health
and Science University press releases, websites or other publications circulated to the general
public.
(31) If  requested by a public safety officer, as defined in ORS 181A.355, or a county juvenile
department employee who  is charged with and primarily performs duties related to the custody,
control or supervision of  adjudicated youths confined in a detention facility, as defined in ORS
419A.004:
(a) The home  address and home telephone number of the public safety officer or county juvenile
department employee contained in the voter registration records for the officer or employee.
(b) The home  address and home telephone number of the public safety officer or county juvenile
department employee contained in records  of the Department of Public Safety Standards and
Training.
(c) The name of the public safety officer or county  juvenile department employee contained in
county real property assessment or taxation records. This exemption:
(A) Applies only to the name of the officer or employee and any  other owner of the property in
connection with a specific property identified by the officer or employee in a  request for exemption
from disclosure;
(B) Applies only to  records that may be made immediately available to the public upon request
in person, by telephone or using the Internet;
(C) Applies until the officer or employee requests termination of the exemption;
(D) Does not apply to disclosure of records among public bodies as defined in ORS 174.109 for
governmental purposes; and
(E) May not result in liability for the county if the name of  the officer or employee is disclosed
after a request for exemption from disclosure is made under this subsection.
(32) Unless the public records  request is made by a financial institution, as defined in ORS
706.008, consumer finance  company licensed under ORS chapter 725, mortgage banker or mortgage
broker licensed under ORS 86A.095 to 86A.198, or title company for business purposes,  records de-
scribed in paragraph  (a) of this subsection, if the exemption from disclosure of the records is sought
by an individual  described in paragraph (b) of this subsection using the procedure described in
paragraph (c) of this subsection:
(a) The home address,  home or cellular telephone number or personal electronic mail address
contained in the records of any public body that has received the request that is set forth in:
(A) A warranty deed, deed of trust, mortgage, lien, deed of reconveyance, release,  satisfaction,
substitution of trustee, easement, dog license, marriage license or  military discharge record that is
in the possession of the county clerk; or
(B) Any public record of a public body other than the county clerk.
Enrolled House Bill 2002 (HB 2002-C) Page 22
(b) The individual claiming the exemption from disclosure must be a district  attorney, a deputy
district attorney, the Attorney General or an assistant attorney general, the United States Attorney
for the District of Oregon or an assistant United States attorney  for the District of Oregon, a city
attorney who engages in the prosecution  of criminal matters or a deputy city attorney who engages
in the prosecution of criminal matters.
(c) The individual claiming the exemption  from disclosure must do so by filing the claim in
writing with the public body for which the exemption from disclosure is being  claimed on a form
prescribed by the public body. Unless the  claim is filed with the county clerk, the claim form shall
list the public records in the possession of the public body to which the exemption applies.  The ex-
emption applies until the individual claiming the exemption requests termination  of the exemption
or ceases to qualify for the exemption.
(33) The following voluntary conservation agreements and reports:
(a) Land management plans  required for voluntary stewardship agreements entered into under
ORS 541.973; and
(b) Written  agreements relating to the conservation of greater sage grouse entered into volun-
tarily by owners or occupiers of land with a soil and water  conservation district under ORS 568.550.
(34) Sensitive business records or financial or commercial information of the State Accident  In-
surance Fund Corporation that is not customarily provided to business competitors.  This exemption
does not:
(a) Apply to the formulas for determining dividends to be paid to  employers insured by the State
Accident Insurance Fund Corporation;
(b) Apply  to contracts for advertising, public relations or lobbying services or to documents re-
lated to the formation of such contracts;
(c) Apply to group insurance contracts or to documents relating to  the formation of such con-
tracts, except that employer  account records shall remain exempt from disclosure as provided in
ORS 192.355 (35); or
(d) Provide the basis for opposing the discovery of documents in  litigation pursuant to the ap-
plicable rules of civil procedure.
(35) Records of the Department of Public Safety Standards and  Training relating to investi-
gations conducted under  ORS 181A.640 or 181A.870 (6), until the department issues the report de-
scribed in ORS 181A.640 or 181A.870.
(36) A medical examiner’s report, autopsy report or laboratory test  report ordered by a medical
examiner under ORS 146.117.
(37) Any document or other information related to an audit of a public body, as  defined in ORS
174.109, that  is in the custody of an auditor or audit organization operating under nationally re-
cognized government auditing standards, until the auditor or audit organization issues a final  audit
report in accordance with those standards or  the audit is abandoned. This exemption does not pro-
hibit disclosure of a draft audit report  that is provided to the audited entity for the entity’s response
to the audit findings.
(38)(a) Personally identifiable  information collected as part of an electronic fare collection sys-
tem of a mass transit system.
(b) The exemption from disclosure in  paragraph (a) of this subsection does not apply to public
records that have attributes of anonymity that are sufficient, or that are aggregated  into groupings
that are  broad enough, to ensure that persons cannot be identified by disclosure of the public re-
cords.
(c) As used in this subsection:
(A) “Electronic fare  collection system” means the software and hardware used for, associated
with or relating to the collection of transit fares for a mass transit  system, including but not limited
to computers, radio communication systems, personal mobile devices, wearable  technology, fare in-
struments, information technology, data storage or collection equipment,  or other equipment or im-
provements.
(B) “Mass transit system” has the meaning given that term in ORS 267.010.
Enrolled House Bill 2002 (HB 2002-C) Page 23
(C) “Personally identifiable information” means all information  relating to a person that ac-
quires or uses a transit pass or other fare payment medium in connection  with an electronic fare
collection system, including but not limited to:
(i) Customer account  information, date of birth, telephone number, physical address, electronic
mail address, credit  or debit card information, bank account information, Social Security or taxpayer
identification number or other identification number, transit pass or fare payment medium balances
or history, or similar personal information; or
(ii) Travel dates, travel times, frequency of use, travel locations, service types or vehicle use,
or similar travel information.
(39)(a) If requested by a civil code enforcement officer:
(A) The home address  and home telephone number of the civil code enforcement officer con-
tained in the voter registration records for the officer.
(B) The name of the civil code enforcement officer contained in county  real property assessment
or taxation records. This exemption:
(i) Applies only to  the name of the civil code enforcement officer and any other owner of the
property in connection with a specific property identified by the officer  in a request for exemption
from disclosure;
(ii) Applies only to records that may be made immediately available  to the public upon request
in person, by telephone or using the Internet;
(iii) Applies until the civil code enforcement officer requests termination of the exemption;
(iv) Does not apply to disclosure of records among public bodies as defined in  ORS 174.109 for
governmental purposes; and
(v) May not result in liability for the county if  the name of the civil code enforcement officer
is disclosed after a request for exemption from disclosure is made under this subsection.
(b) As used in this  subsection, “civil code enforcement officer” means an employee of a public
body, as defined in ORS 174.109, who is charged with enforcing laws or ordinances relating to land
use, zoning, use of rights-of-way, solid waste, hazardous waste, sewage treatment and  disposal or the
state building code.
(40) Audio or video recordings, whether digital or analog, resulting  from a law enforcement
officer’s operation of a video camera worn  upon the officer’s person that records the officer’s
interactions with members of the public while the officer is on  duty. When a recording described in
this subsection is subject to disclosure, the following apply:
(a) Recordings that have been sealed in a court’s record of a court proceeding or otherwise  or-
dered by a court not to be disclosed may not be disclosed.
(b) A request for disclosure under this subsection must identify the approximate date  and time
of an incident for which the recordings are requested and be reasonably tailored to include only that
material for which a public interest requires disclosure.
(c) A video recording disclosed under this subsection must, prior to disclosure, be edited in a
manner as to render the faces of all persons within the recording unidentifiable.
(41) The contents of tips reported  to a tip line, as defined in ORS 339.329. However, personally
identifiable information, as defined in ORS 339.329, is  not subject to public interest balancing under
this section and remains exempt from disclosure except as provided in ORS 339.329.
(42) Residential addresses of individuals with intellectual or developmental disabilities residing
in adult foster homes as defined in ORS 443.705 or residential  training facilities or residential
training homes as those terms are defined in ORS 443.400.
(43) The name,  home address, professional address or location of an individual who is
authorized to provide physical  and behavioral health care services in this state and who
provides reproductive and gender-affirming health care services.
SECTION 40.
 ORS  192.345, as amended by section 4, chapter 532, Oregon Laws 2019, section
2, chapter  318, Oregon Laws 2021, and section 23, chapter 489, Oregon Laws 2021, is amended to
read:
Enrolled House Bill 2002 (HB 2002-C) Page 24
192.345. The following public records are  exempt from disclosure under ORS 192.311 to 192.478
unless the public interest requires disclosure in the particular instance:
(1) Records of a  public body pertaining to litigation to which the public body is a party if the
complaint has been filed, or if the complaint has not  been filed, if the public body shows that such
litigation is reasonably likely to occur. This exemption  does not apply to litigation which has been
concluded, and nothing in this subsection shall limit any  right or opportunity granted by discovery
or deposition statutes to a party to litigation or potential litigation.
(2) Trade secrets. “Trade secrets,” as used in this section, may include, but are not  limited to,
any formula, plan, pattern, process, tool, mechanism, compound,  procedure, production data, or
compilation of information which is not patented, which is  known only to certain individuals within
an organization and which is  used in a business it conducts, having actual or potential commercial
value, and which gives its user an opportunity to obtain a business advantage over competitors who
do not know or use it.
(3) Investigatory information compiled for  criminal law purposes. The record of an arrest or the
report  of  a crime shall be disclosed unless and only for so long as there is a clear need to delay
disclosure in the course of  a specific investigation, including the need to protect the complaining
party or the victim. Nothing in  this subsection shall limit any right constitutionally guaranteed,
or granted by statute,  to disclosure or discovery in criminal cases. For purposes of this subsection,
the record of an arrest or the report of a crime includes, but is not limited to:
(a) The arrested person’s name, age, residence, employment, marital status and  similar bi-
ographical information;
(b) The offense with which the arrested person is charged;
(c) The conditions of release pursuant to ORS 135.230 to 135.290;
(d) The identity of and biographical information concerning both complaining party and victim;
(e) The identity of the investigating and arresting agency and the length of the investigation;
(f) The circumstances of  arrest, including time, place, resistance, pursuit and weapons used; and
(g) Such information as may be  necessary to enlist public assistance in apprehending fugitives
from justice.
(4) Test questions, scoring keys, and other data  used to administer a licensing examination,
employment, academic or other examination or testing procedure before the  examination is given
and if the examination is to be  used again. Records establishing procedures for and instructing
persons administering, grading or evaluating an examination  or testing procedure are included in
this exemption, to the extent that disclosure would create a risk that the result might be affected.
(5) Information consisting of production records, sale or purchase records or  catch records, or
similar business records of a private concern or enterprise,  required by law to be submitted to or
inspected by a governmental body to allow it to determine fees or assessments payable or to  estab-
lish production quotas, and the amounts of such fees or assessments  payable or paid, to the extent
that such information is in a form that would permit identification  of the individual concern or en-
terprise. This exemption does not include records submitted by long term care facilities as defined
in ORS 442.015 to the state for purposes of reimbursement of expenses  or determining fees for pa-
tient care. Nothing in this  subsection shall limit the use that can be made of such information for
regulatory purposes or its admissibility in any enforcement proceeding.
(6) Information relating to the appraisal of real estate prior to its acquisition.
(7) The names and signatures of employees who sign authorization cards or  petitions for the
purpose of requesting representation or decertification elections.
(8) Investigatory information relating to any complaint filed under ORS 659A.820 or 659A.825,
until such time as the complaint is resolved  under ORS 659A.835, or a final order is issued under
ORS 659A.850.
(9) Investigatory information relating to any complaint or charge  filed under ORS 243.676 and
663.180.
(10) Records,  reports and other information received or compiled by the Director of the De-
partment of Consumer and Business Services under ORS 697.732.
Enrolled House Bill 2002 (HB 2002-C) Page 25
(11) Information concerning the location of  archaeological sites or objects as those terms are
defined in ORS 358.905, except if the governing body of an Indian tribe requests  the information and
the need for the  information is related to that Indian tribe’s cultural or religious activities. This
exemption does not include information relating to a site  that is all or part of an existing, commonly
known and publicized tourist facility or attraction.
(12) A personnel discipline action, or materials or documents supporting that action.
(13) Fish and wildlife  information developed pursuant to ORS 496.004, 496.172 and 498.026 or
ORS 496.192 and 564.100, regarding the habitat, location or population of any threatened  species or
endangered species.
(14) Writings prepared by or under the direction of faculty of public  educational institutions, in
connection with research, until publicly released, copyrighted or patented.
(15) Computer programs developed or purchased by or for any public body for its own  use. As
used in this subsection, “computer program” means a series of instructions or statements  which
permit the functioning of a computer system in a manner designed  to provide storage, retrieval and
manipulation of data from  such computer system, and any associated documentation and source
material that  explain how to operate the computer program. “Computer program” does not include:
(a) The original data, including but not limited to numbers, text, voice, graphics and images;
(b) Analyses, compilations and  other manipulated forms of the original data produced by use of
the program; or
(c) The mathematical and statistical  formulas which would be used if the manipulated forms of
the original data were to be produced manually.
(16) Data and information provided by participants to mediation under ORS 36.256.
(17) Investigatory information relating to any complaint or charge  filed under ORS chapter 654,
until a final administrative determination is made or, if a citation is issued, until  an employer re-
ceives notice of any citation.
(18) Specific operational plans in connection with an anticipated threat to  individual or public
safety for deployment and use of personnel and equipment, prepared or used by  a public body, if
public disclosure of the plans would endanger an individual’s life or physical safety  or jeopardize a
law enforcement activity.
(19)(a) Audits or audit reports required of a telecommunications carrier. As  used in this para-
graph, “audit or audit report” means any external or internal  audit or audit report pertaining to a
telecommunications carrier, as defined in ORS 133.721, or pertaining to a corporation having an af-
filiated interest, as defined  in ORS 759.390, with a telecommunications carrier that is intended to
make the operations of the entity more efficient,  accurate or compliant with applicable rules, pro-
cedures or standards, that may include self-criticism and that has been  filed by the telecommuni-
cations carrier or affiliate under compulsion of state  law. “Audit or audit report” does not mean an
audit of a cost study that would be discoverable in a  contested case proceeding and that is not
subject to a protective order; and
(b) Financial statements. As used  in this paragraph, “financial statement” means a financial
statement of a nonregulated corporation having an affiliated  interest, as defined in ORS 759.390,
with a telecommunications carrier, as defined in ORS 133.721.
(20) The residence address of an elector  if authorized under ORS 247.965 and subject to ORS
247.967.
(21) The following records, communications and information submitted to a housing authority
as defined in ORS  456.005, or to an urban renewal agency as defined in ORS 457.010, by applicants
for and recipients of loans, grants and tax credits:
(a) Personal and corporate financial statements and information, including tax returns;
(b) Credit reports;
(c) Project appraisals, excluding appraisals obtained in the course of transactions involving  an
interest in real estate that is acquired, leased, rented,  exchanged, transferred or otherwise disposed
of as part of the project, but only after the transactions have closed and are concluded;
(d) Market studies and analyses;
Enrolled House Bill 2002 (HB 2002-C) Page 26
(e) Articles of incorporation, partnership agreements and operating agreements;
(f) Commitment letters;
(g) Project pro forma statements;
(h) Project cost certifications and cost data;
(i) Audits;
(j) Project tenant correspondence requested to be confidential;
(k) Tenant files relating to certification; and
(L) Housing assistance payment requests.
(22) Records or information that, if disclosed, would allow a person to:
(a) Gain unauthorized access to buildings or other property;
(b) Identify those areas of structural  or operational vulnerability that would permit unlawful
disruption to, or interference with, services; or
(c) Disrupt, interfere with  or gain unauthorized access to public funds or to information proc-
essing, communication or telecommunication systems, including the  information contained in the
systems, that are used or operated by a public body.
(23) Records or information that would reveal or  otherwise identify security measures, or
weaknesses or potential weaknesses in security measures, taken or recommended  to be taken to
protect:
(a) An individual;
(b) Buildings or other property;
(c) Information  processing, communication or telecommunication systems, including the infor-
mation contained in the systems; or
(d) Those operations of the  Oregon State Lottery the security of which are subject to study and
evaluation under ORS 461.180 (6).
(24) Personal information held by or under the direction  of officials of the Oregon Health and
Science University or a public university listed in ORS 352.002 about a person  who has or who is
interested in donating money or property to the  Oregon Health and Science University or a public
university, if the information is related to the family of the person,  personal assets of the person
or is incidental information not related to the donation.
(25) The home address,  professional address and telephone number of a person who has or who
is interested in donating money or property to a public university listed in ORS 352.002.
(26) Records of the name  and address of a person who files a report with or pays an assessment
to a commodity commission  established under ORS 576.051 to 576.455, the Oregon Beef Council
created under ORS 577.210 or the Oregon Wheat Commission created under ORS 578.030.
(27) Information provided to, obtained by or used by a public body to authorize, originate,  re-
ceive or authenticate a transfer of funds, including but not limited  to a credit card number, payment
card expiration date, password, financial institution account number and financial institution routing
number.
(28) Social Security numbers as provided in ORS 107.840.
(29) The electronic mail address of a student who attends a public university  listed in ORS
352.002 or Oregon Health and Science University.
(30) The name,  home address, professional address or location of a person that is engaged in,
or that provides goods or services for,  medical research at Oregon Health and Science University
that is  conducted using animals other than rodents. This subsection does not apply to Oregon Health
and Science University press releases, websites or other publications circulated to the general
public.
(31) If  requested by a public safety officer, as defined in ORS 181A.355, or a county juvenile
department employee who  is charged with and primarily performs duties related to the custody,
control or supervision of  adjudicated youths confined in a detention facility, as defined in ORS
419A.004:
(a) The home  address and home telephone number of the public safety officer or county juvenile
department employee contained in the voter registration records for the officer or employee.
Enrolled House Bill 2002 (HB 2002-C) Page 27
(b) The home  address and home telephone number of the public safety officer or county juvenile
department employee contained in records  of the Department of Public Safety Standards and
Training.
(c) The name of the public  safety officer or county juvenile department employee contained in
county real property assessment or taxation records. This exemption:
(A) Applies only to the name of the officer or employee and any  other owner of the property in
connection with a specific property identified by the officer or employee in a  request for exemption
from disclosure;
(B) Applies only to records that may be made immediately available to the  public upon request
in person, by telephone or using the Internet;
(C) Applies until the officer or employee requests termination of the exemption;
(D) Does not apply to disclosure of records among public bodies as defined in ORS 174.109 for
governmental purposes; and
(E) May not result in liability for the county if the name of  the officer or employee is disclosed
after a request for exemption from disclosure is made under this subsection.
(32) Unless the public records request is made by a financial institution,  as defined in ORS
706.008, consumer finance company licensed under ORS chapter 725, mortgage banker  or mortgage
broker licensed under  ORS 86A.095 to 86A.198, or title company for business purposes, records de-
scribed in paragraph  (a) of this subsection, if the exemption from disclosure of the records is sought
by an individual described in paragraph (b) of this subsection using the procedure  described in
paragraph (c) of this subsection:
(a) The home address, home or cellular telephone number or personal  electronic mail address
contained in the records of any public body that has received the request that is set forth in:
(A) A  warranty deed, deed of trust, mortgage, lien, deed of reconveyance, release, satisfaction,
substitution of trustee, easement, dog license,  marriage license or military discharge record that is
in the possession of the county clerk; or
(B) Any public record of a public body other than the county clerk.
(b) The individual claiming  the exemption from disclosure must be a district attorney, a deputy
district attorney, the Attorney General or an assistant attorney general, the United States Attorney
for the District of Oregon or an assistant  United States attorney for the District of Oregon, a city
attorney who engages in the prosecution  of criminal matters or a deputy city attorney who engages
in the prosecution of criminal matters.
(c) The individual claiming the exemption  from disclosure must do so by filing the claim in
writing with the public body for which the exemption from disclosure is being  claimed on a form
prescribed by the public body. Unless the  claim is filed with the county clerk, the claim form shall
list the public records in the possession of the public body to which the exemption applies.  The ex-
emption applies until the individual claiming the exemption requests termination  of the exemption
or ceases to qualify for the exemption.
(33) The following voluntary conservation agreements and reports:
(a) Land management plans  required for voluntary stewardship agreements entered into under
ORS 541.973; and
(b) Written  agreements relating to the conservation of greater sage grouse entered into volun-
tarily by owners or occupiers of land with a soil and water  conservation district under ORS 568.550.
(34) Sensitive business records or financial or commercial information of the State Accident  In-
surance Fund Corporation that is not customarily provided to business competitors.  This exemption
does not:
(a) Apply to the formulas for determining dividends to be paid to  employers insured by the State
Accident Insurance Fund Corporation;
(b) Apply  to contracts for advertising, public relations or lobbying services or to documents re-
lated to the formation of such contracts;
Enrolled House Bill 2002 (HB 2002-C) Page 28
(c) Apply to group insurance contracts or to documents relating to  the formation of such con-
tracts, except that employer  account records shall remain exempt from disclosure as provided in
ORS 192.355 (35); or
(d) Provide the basis for opposing  the discovery of documents in litigation pursuant to the ap-
plicable rules of civil procedure.
(35) Records of the Department  of Public Safety Standards and Training relating to investi-
gations conducted under ORS 181A.640 or 181A.870 (6), until the department issues the  report de-
scribed in ORS 181A.640 or 181A.870.
(36) A medical examiner’s report, autopsy report or laboratory test  report ordered by a medical
examiner under ORS 146.117.
(37) Any document or other information related to an audit of a public body, as  defined in ORS
174.109, that is in the custody of an auditor or audit organization operating under nationally  re-
cognized  government  auditing standards, until the auditor or audit organization issues a final audit
report in accordance with those standards or the audit is  abandoned. This exemption does not pro-
hibit disclosure of a draft audit report  that is provided to the audited entity for the entity’s response
to the audit findings.
(38)(a) Personally identifiable information collected as part of an electronic fare  collection sys-
tem of a mass transit system.
(b) The exemption from disclosure in paragraph (a) of this subsection  does not apply to public
records that have attributes of anonymity that are sufficient, or that are aggregated  into groupings
that are broad enough, to ensure that persons cannot be identified by disclosure of the public  re-
cords.
(c) As used in this subsection:
(A) “Electronic fare collection system” means the software and hardware used  for, associated
with or relating to the collection of transit fares for a mass transit  system, including but not limited
to computers, radio communication  systems, personal mobile devices, wearable technology, fare in-
struments, information technology, data storage or  collection equipment, or other equipment or im-
provements.
(B) “Mass transit system” has the meaning given that term in ORS 267.010.
(C) “Personally identifiable information” means all information  relating to a person that ac-
quires or uses a transit  pass or other fare payment medium in connection with an electronic fare
collection system, including but not limited to:
(i) Customer account  information, date of birth, telephone number, physical address, electronic
mail address, credit  or debit card information, bank account information, Social Security or taxpayer
identification number or other identification number, transit pass or fare payment medium balances
or history, or similar personal information; or
(ii) Travel dates, travel times, frequency of use, travel locations, service types or vehicle use,
or similar travel information.
(39)(a) If requested by a civil code enforcement officer:
(A) The home address  and home telephone number of the civil code enforcement officer con-
tained in the voter registration records for the officer.
(B) The name of the civil code enforcement officer contained in county  real property assessment
or taxation records. This exemption:
(i) Applies only to  the name of the civil code enforcement officer and any other owner of the
property in connection with a specific property identified by the officer  in a request for exemption
from disclosure;
(ii) Applies only to records that may be made immediately available  to the public upon request
in person, by telephone or using the Internet;
(iii) Applies until the civil code enforcement officer requests termination of the exemption;
(iv) Does not apply to disclosure of records among public bodies as defined in  ORS 174.109 for
governmental purposes; and
Enrolled House Bill 2002 (HB 2002-C) Page 29
(v) May not result in liability for the county if  the name of the civil code enforcement officer
is disclosed after a request for exemption from disclosure is made under this subsection.
(b) As used in this  subsection, “civil code enforcement officer” means an employee of a public
body, as defined in ORS 174.109, who is charged with enforcing laws or ordinances relating to land
use, zoning, use of rights-of-way, solid waste, hazardous waste, sewage treatment and  disposal or the
state building code.
(40) Audio or video recordings, whether digital or analog, resulting  from a law enforcement
officer’s operation of a video camera worn  upon the officer’s person that records the officer’s
interactions with members of the public while the officer is on  duty. When a recording described in
this subsection is subject to disclosure, the following apply:
(a) Recordings that have been sealed in a court’s record of a court proceeding or otherwise  or-
dered by a court not to be disclosed may not be disclosed.
(b) A request for disclosure under this subsection must identify the approximate date  and time
of an incident for which the recordings are requested and be reasonably tailored to include only that
material for which a public interest requires disclosure.
(c) A video recording disclosed under this subsection must, prior to disclosure, be edited in a
manner as to render the faces of all persons within the recording unidentifiable.
(41) The contents of tips reported  to a tip line, as defined in ORS 339.329. However, personally
identifiable information, as defined in ORS 339.329, is  not subject to public interest balancing under
this section and remains exempt from disclosure except as provided in ORS 339.329.
(42) Residential addresses of individuals with intellectual or developmental disabilities residing
in adult foster homes as defined in ORS 443.705 or residential  training facilities or residential
training homes as those terms are defined in ORS 443.400.
(43) The name,  home address, professional address or location of an individual who is
authorized to provide physical  and behavioral health care services in this state and who
provides reproductive and gender-affirming health care services.
SECTION 41.
 ORS 192.820 is amended to read:
192.820. As used in ORS 192.820 to 192.868:
(1) “Actual address” means:
(a) A residential, work or  school street address of an individual specified on the application of
the individual to be a program participant; or
(b) The name of the county in which the program participant resides or the name or  number of
the election precinct in which the program participant is registered to vote.
(2) “Address Confidentiality Program” means the program established under ORS 192.822.
(3) “Application  assistant” means an employee of or a volunteer serving a public or private en-
tity designated by the Attorney  General under ORS 192.854 to assist individuals with applications
to participate in the Address Confidentiality Program.
(4) “Health care provider” means an individual who is authorized in this  state to provide
physical and behavioral health care services and who  provides reproductive and gender-
affirming health care services.
[(4)] (5) “Program participant” means an individual accepted into the Address Confidentiality
Program under ORS 192.820 to 192.868.
[(5)] (6) “Public body” has the meaning given that term in ORS 174.109.
[(6)] (7) “Public record” has the meaning given that term in ORS 192.311.
[(7)] (8) “Substitute address” means an address designated by the Attorney General  under the
Address Confidentiality Program.
[(8)] (9) “Victim of a sexual offense” means:
(a) An individual against  whom a sexual offense has been committed, as described in ORS
163.305 to 163.467, 163.427, 163.466 or 163.525; or
(b) Any other individual designated by the Attorney General by rule.
[(9)] (10) “Victim of domestic violence” means:
Enrolled House Bill 2002 (HB 2002-C) Page 30
(a) An individual against whom domestic violence has been committed, as defined in  ORS
135.230, 181A.355 or 411.117;
(b) An individual who has been a victim of abuse, as defined in ORS 107.705; or
(c) Any other individual designated a victim of domestic violence by the Attorney General  by
rule.
[(10)] (11) “Victim of human trafficking” means:
(a) An individual against whom an offense described in ORS 163.263,  163.264 or 163.266 has been
committed; or
(b) Any other individual designated by the Attorney General by rule. In  adopting rules under
this subsection,  the Attorney General shall consider individuals against whom an act recognized as
a severe form of trafficking in persons under 22 U.S.C. 7102 has been committed.
[(11)] (12) “Victim of stalking” means:
(a) An individual against whom stalking has been committed, as described in ORS 163.732; or
(b) Any other individual designated by the Attorney General by rule.
SECTION 42.
 ORS 192.822 is amended to read:
192.822. (1) The Address Confidentiality Program is established  in the Department of Justice to:
(a) Protect the confidentiality of  the actual address of a  health care provider or a  victim of
domestic violence, a sexual offense, stalking or human trafficking; and
(b) Prevent assailants or potential assailants of the health care provider or victim from finding
the health care provider or  victim through public records.
(2) The Attorney General shall  designate a substitute address for a program participant and act
as the agent of the program participant for  purposes of service of all legal process in this state and
receiving and forwarding first-class, certified or registered mail.
(3) The Attorney  General is not required to forward any packages or mail other than first-class,
certified or registered mail to the program participant.
(4) The Attorney General is not required to track or otherwise maintain  records of any mail
received on behalf of a program participant unless the mail is certified or registered.
SECTION 43.  ORS 192.826 is amended to read:
192.826. (1) Any of the following individuals with the assistance of an application  assistant may
file an  application with the Attorney General to participate in the Address Confidentiality Program:
(a) An adult individual.
(b) A parent  or guardian acting on behalf of a minor when the minor resides with the parent
or guardian.
(c) A guardian acting on behalf of an incapacitated individual.
(2) The application  must be dated, signed and verified by the applicant and the application as-
sistant who assisted in the preparation of the application.
(3) Except as provided in subsection (8) of this section,  the application must contain  all of
the following:
(a) A statement by the  applicant that the applicant or the applicant’s child or ward is a victim
of domestic  violence, a sexual offense, stalking or human trafficking and that the applicant fears for
the applicant’s safety or the safety of the applicant’s child or ward.
(b) Evidence that the applicant or the applicant’s child or ward is a victim of domestic  violence,
a sexual offense, stalking or human trafficking. This evidence may include any of the following:
(A) Law enforcement, court or other federal, state or local government records or files;
(B) Documentation from  a public or private entity that provides assistance to victims of do-
mestic violence, a  sexual offense, stalking or human trafficking if the applicant or the applicant’s
child or ward is an alleged victim of  domestic violence, a sexual offense, stalking or human traf-
ficking;
(C) Documentation from a religious, medical or other professional from whom the applicant  has
sought assistance in dealing with the alleged domestic violence,  sexual offense, stalking or human
trafficking;  or
(D) Other forms of evidence as determined by the Attorney General by rule.
Enrolled House Bill 2002 (HB 2002-C) Page 31
(c) A statement by the applicant that disclosure  of the actual address of the applicant would
endanger the safety of the applicant or the safety of the applicant’s child or ward.
(d) A statement by the applicant that the applicant:
(A) Resides at a location in  this state that is not known by assailants or potential assailants
of the applicant or the applicant’s child or ward; and
(B) Will not disclose the location to  assailants or potential assailants of the applicant or the
applicant’s child or ward while the applicant is a program participant.
(e) Written consent permitting the Attorney General to act as an agent for the applicant  for the
service of all legal process in this state and the receipt of first-class, certified or registered mail.
(f) The mailing address and telephone number at which the Attorney General  can contact the
applicant.
(g) The actual address that the applicant requests not  be disclosed by the Attorney General that
directly relates to the increased risk of the applicant  or the applicant’s child or ward as a victim
of domestic violence, a sexual offense, stalking or human trafficking.
(h) A sworn statement by the applicant that to  the best of the applicant’s knowledge the infor-
mation contained in the application is true.
(i) A recommendation by an application assistant that the applicant be a participant in  the Ad-
dress Confidentiality Program.
(4) Upon the  filing of a properly completed application and upon approval by the Attorney
General, the Attorney General shall certify the applicant as a program participant.
(5) Upon  certification, the Attorney General shall issue an Address Confidentiality Program
authorization card to  the program participant. The Address Confidentiality Program authorization
card is valid as long as the program participant remains certified under the program.
(6) The term of certification shall be for a period of time  determined by the Attorney General
by rule, unless prior to the end of the period one of the following occurs:
(a) The program participant withdraws the certification by filing with  the Attorney General a
request for withdrawal signed by the program participant and acknowledged in writing by a  notary
public or an application assistant; or
(b) The Attorney General cancels the certification under ORS 192.834.
(7) A program participant may renew the certification by filing an application for renewal with
the Attorney General at least 30 days prior to expiration of the current certification.
(8) The Attorney General  shall establish by rule the requirements for an application filed
by a health care provider.
SECTION 44.
 ORS 676.177 is amended to read:
676.177. (1) Notwithstanding any other provision of ORS 676.165 to 676.180 and except as pro-
vided in subsection (5) of this section , a health professional regulatory board, upon a  determi-
nation by the board that it possesses otherwise confidential information that reasonably  relates to
the regulatory or enforcement function  of another public entity, may disclose that information to the
other public entity.
(2) Any public entity that receives information pursuant to subsection (1) of  this section shall
agree to  take all reasonable steps to maintain the confidentiality of the information, except that the
public entity may use or  disclose the information to the extent necessary to carry out the regulatory
or enforcement functions of the public entity.
(3) For purposes of this section, “public entity” means:
(a) A board or agency of  this state, or a board or agency of another state with regulatory or
enforcement functions similar to  the functions of a health professional regulatory board of this state;
(b) A district attorney;
(c) The Department of Justice;
(d) A state  or local public body of this state that licenses, franchises or provides emergency
medical services; or
(e) A law enforcement agency of this state, another state or the federal government.
Enrolled House Bill 2002 (HB 2002-C) Page 32
(4) Notwithstanding subsections (1) to (3) of this  section, the Oregon Board of Physical Therapy
may disclose information described in  subsection (1) of this section to the Physical Therapy Compact
Commission established in ORS 688.240.
(5) A health professional  regulatory board may not disclose the information described in
subsection (1) of this section to another public entity if  the information relates to the pro-
vision of or referral for reproductive or gender-affirming health care services.
(Health Care Facilities)
SECTION 45. (1) A person commits the  crime of interfering with a health care facility
if the person intentionally, knowingly or recklessly interferes with access to or from a health
care facility, or disrupts the normal functioning of a health care facility, by:
(a) Physically obstructing or  impeding the free passage of a person seeking to enter or
depart from  the facility or from the common areas of the real property upon which the fa-
cility is located;
(b) Making noise that unreasonably disturbs the peace within the facility;
(c) Trespassing on the facility or the common areas of the real property upon which  the
facility is located;
(d) Causing the telephone of the  facility to ring, vibrate or otherwise alert by visual or
auditory means if:
(A) The person has no communicative purpose; or
(B) The person  knows that the person has been forbidden from causing the telephone to
ring, vibrate or alert by an individual exercising lawful authority over  the receiving tele-
phone; or
(e) Subjecting an owner, agent, patient or employee of the  facility to alarm by conveying
a telephonic, electronic or written threat to inflict serious physical injury on that individual
or to commit a felony involving the individual, the property of the individual or  a member
of the individual’s family, when the threat would reasonably be expected to cause alarm.
(2) Interfering with a health care facility is a Class A misdemeanor.
(3)(a) No law shall be passed restraining the free expression of opinion, or restricting the
right to speak, write, or print freely on any subject whatever;  but every person shall be re-
sponsible for the abuse of this right.
(b) Nothing in this section prohibits lawful picketing, lawful  protesting or peaceful as-
sembly, or other publicity for the purpose of providing the public with information.
(4) In a criminal proceeding based on a charge described in this section, the court  shall
take all steps  reasonably necessary to safeguard the individual’s privacy and prevent
harassment of a health care patient or health care provider who  is a victim or witness in the
proceeding, including granting protective orders and motions in limine when appropriate.
(5) As used in this section:
(a) “Health care facility” means a facility that provides health  care services directly to
patients, including but not limited to a  hospital, clinic, health care provider’s office, health
maintenance organization, diagnostic or treatment center, mental health facility, hospice or
nursing home.
(b) “Health care provider” means an individual  licensed, certified, registered or otherwise
authorized to practice by a board, as defined in ORS 413.164,  or an officer, director, employee
or agent of a health care facility.
SECTION 46.
(1) Irrespective of any criminal prosecution or the result thereof, a person
or health care facility aggrieved by conduct prohibited by section 45 of  this 2023 Act may
bring a  civil action against the person or group of persons engaging in the prohibited con-
duct, individually or jointly with other aggrieved persons, in the appropriate  court for relief.
(2) A plaintiff who prevails in a claim described in this section may recover:
(a) Economic or noneconomic damages, as those terms are defined in ORS 31.705;
Enrolled House Bill 2002 (HB 2002-C) Page 33
(b) Statutory damages of $500 per day for each day that the prohibited  conduct occurred
for a plaintiff who is an individual, or $5,000 per day for each day that  the prohibited conduct
occurred for a plaintiff that is a health care facility;
(c) Injunctive relief;
(d) Reasonable attorney fees; and
(e) Any other appropriate equitable relief.
(3) In a proceeding on  an action described in this section, the court shall take all steps
reasonably necessary to safeguard  the individual’s privacy and prevent harassment of a
health care patient or health care provider who is a party  to or witness in the proceeding,
including granting protective orders and motions in limine when appropriate.
(4) The following persons and entities qualify  as aggrieved for the purposes of subsection
(1) of this section:
(a) A person, physically present at the  health care facility when the prohibited conduct
occurs, whose access is or is about to be obstructed or impeded;
(b) A person, physically present at the health  care facility when the prohibited conduct
occurs, whose care is or is about to be disrupted;
(c) The health care facility or an employee or agent of the health care facility; or
(d) The owner  of the health care facility or the building or property upon which the
health care facility is located.
(5) As used in this section:
(a) “Health care facility” has the meaning given that term in section 45  of this 2023 Act.
(b) “Health care provider” has the meaning  given that term in section 45 of this 2023 Act.
(Employees)
SECTION 47.
 ORS 659A.029 is amended to read:
659A.029. For purposes of ORS 659A.030, the  phrase “because of sex” includes, but is not limited
to, because  of pregnancy, childbirth and related medical conditions or occurrences. [ Women] An
individual affected by the individual’s pregnancy, childbirth or  related medical conditions or oc-
currences shall be treated the same for all employment-related purposes, including receipt  of bene-
fits under fringe  benefit programs, as [ other persons ] any other person  not so affected but similar
in [ their] ability or inability to work by reason of physical condition, and  nothing in this section
shall be interpreted to permit otherwise.
(Interstate Actions)
SECTION 48. (1) As used in this section:
(a) “Gender-affirming treatment” means a procedure, service, drug, device or  product
that a physical or behavioral health  care provider prescribes to treat an individual for
incongruence between the individual’s gender identity and the individual’s sex assignment
at birth.
(b) “Reproductive health” means reproductive processes, functions  and systems at all
stages of life.
(c) “Reproductive health care” includes family planning  and contraception, pregnancy
termination services, prenatal, postnatal and  delivery care, miscarriage management,
fertility care, sterilization services, treatments for sexually transmitted  infections and re-
productive cancers and any other  health care and medical services related to reproductive
health.
(2) A law of another state that authorizes a person to bring a civil or criminal action
against a person that does any of the following is contrary to the public policy of this  state:
(a) Receive reproductive health care or gender-affirming treatment;
Enrolled House Bill 2002 (HB 2002-C) Page 34
(b) Provide or attempt to provide reproductive health care or gender-affirming  treat-
ment; or
(c) Knowingly engage  in conduct that aids or abets the provision of reproductive health
care or gender-affirming treatment.
(3) Notwithstanding ORCP 38 C, a person may not request that a clerk of  court issue a
subpoena for service  upon a person to whom a foreign subpoena is directed if the foreign
subpoena relates to gender-affirming treatment or  reproductive health care services that are
permitted under the laws of this state, unless the  person requesting the subpoena provides
a written declaration that the foreign subpoena relates to:
(a) An  out-of-state action founded in tort, contract or statute, for which a similar claim
would exist under the laws of this state, brought by a  patient or the patient’s authorized
legal representative, for damages suffered by the patient; or
(b) An out-of-state action founded in contract, and for which a similar claim  would exist
under the laws of this state, brought or sought to be enforced by  a party with a contractual
relationship with the person that is the subject of the subpoena.
SECTION 49.  ORS 15.430 is amended to read:
15.430. Notwithstanding ORS 15.440, 15.445 and 15.455,  Oregon law governs noncontractual
claims in the following actions:
(1) Actions in which, after the events  giving rise to the dispute, the parties agree to the appli-
cation of Oregon law.
(2) Actions in which none of the parties raises the issue of applicability of foreign law.
(3) Actions in which the party or parties  who rely on foreign law fail to assist the court in es-
tablishing the relevant provisions of foreign law after being requested by the court to do so.
(4) Actions filed against a public body of the State of Oregon, unless  the application of Oregon
law is waived by a person authorized by Oregon law  to make the waiver on behalf of the public
body.
(5) Actions against an owner, lessor or possessor  of land, buildings or other real property situ-
ated in Oregon that seek to recover for, or to prevent, injury  on that property and arising out of
conduct that occurs in Oregon.
(6) Actions between an employer  and an employee who is primarily employed in Oregon that
arise out of an injury that occurs in Oregon.
(7) Actions for professional  malpractice arising from services rendered entirely in Oregon by
personnel licensed to perform those services under Oregon law.
(8)(a) Actions against a provider of reproductive health  care or gender-affirming treat-
ment, as those terms are defined in section 48  of this 2023 Act, if the reproductive health
care or gender-affirming treatment at issue was provided in this state.
(b) Actions against a  patient receiving reproductive health care or gender-affirming
treatment if the reproductive  health care or gender-affirming treatment at issue was re-
ceived in this state.
(c) Actions against any person  who provides aid, assistance, resources or support to a
person in providing or receiving reproductive health care or gender-affirming treatment in
this state.
CONFORMING AMENDMENTS
SECTION 50.
 ORS 161.005 is amended to read:
161.005. ORS 161.005 to 161.055, 161.085 to 161.125, 161.150 to 161.175, 161.190 to 161.275, 161.290
to 161.373, 161.405 to 161.485, 161.505 to  161.585, 161.605, 161.615 to 161.685, 161.705 to 161.737,
162.005, 162.015 to  162.035, 162.055 to 162.115, 162.135 to 162.205, 162.225 to 162.375, 162.405 to
162.425, 162.465, 163.005, 163.095, 163.107, 163.115, 163.125 to 163.145, 163.149, 163.160 to  163.208,
163.191, 163.196,  163.215 to 163.257, 163.261, 163.263, 163.264, 163.266, 163.275, 163.285, 163.305 to
163.467, 163.432, 163.433, 163.472, 163.505 to 163.575, 163.665 to 163.693, 163.700, 163.701,  163.715,
Enrolled House Bill 2002 (HB 2002-C) Page 35
164.005, 164.015 to 164.135, 164.138, 164.140, 164.205 to 164.270, 164.305 to 164.377, 164.395 to 164.415,
164.805, 164.857,  164.886, 165.002 to 165.102, 165.109, 165.118, 165.805, 165.815, 166.005 to 166.095,
166.350, 166.382, 166.384, 166.660, 167.002 to 167.027, 167.057, 167.060 to 167.100, 167.117,  167.122 to
167.162, 167.203 to 167.252, 167.310 to  167.340, 167.350, 167.810 and 167.820 and section 45 of this
2023 Act shall be known and may be cited as Oregon Criminal Code of 1971.
SECTION 51.  ORS 677.320 is amended to read:
677.320. (1) Upon the complaint of any [ citizen] resident of this state, or upon its own  initiative,
the Oregon Medical Board may investigate any alleged violation of this chapter. If, after the  inves-
tigation, the board has reason to believe that any person is subject  to criminal prosecution
[criminally] in this state  for the violation of this chapter, [ it] the board shall lay the facts before
the proper district attorney.
(2) In the conduct of investigations, the board or its designated representative may:
(a) Take evidence;
(b) Take the depositions of witnesses, including the person charged;
(c) Compel the appearance of witnesses, including the person charged;
(d) Require answers to interrogatories; and
(e) Compel the production of  books, papers, accounts, documents and testimony pertaining to the
matter under investigation.
(3) In exercising its authority  under subsection (2) of this section, the board may issue
subpoenas over the signature of the executive director and the  seal of the board in the name of the
State of Oregon.
(4) In any proceeding under this section where the subpoena is addressed to a licensee  of this
board, it shall not be a defense that the material that is subject to  the subpoena is protected under
a patient and physician privilege.
(5) If  a licensee who is the subject of an investigation or complaint is to appear before members
of the board investigating the complaint, the board shall provide  the licensee with a current sum-
mary of the complaint or the matter being investigated not less than five days prior  to the date that
the licensee is to appear. At the time the summary of the complaint or the matter being investi-
gated is provided,  the board shall provide to the licensee a current summary of documents or alleged
facts that the board has acquired as a result of the investigation. The name of the  complainant or
other information that reasonably may be  used to identify the complainant may be withheld from the
licensee.
(6) A licensee who is the subject of  an investigation and any person authorized to act on behalf
of the licensee shall not knowingly contact the complainant until the licensee  has requested a con-
tested case hearing and the board has authorized the  taking of the complainant’s deposition pursu-
ant to ORS 183.425.
(7) Except in an investigation or proceeding conducted by the board or another public entity,
or in an action, suit or proceeding where a public entity is a party, a licensee shall not be ques-
tioned or examined regarding any communication with the board made in an appearance  before the
board as part of an investigation. This section shall  not prohibit examination or questioning of a
licensee regarding records dealing with a patient’s care and treatment or affect the  admissibility of
those records.  As used in this section, “public entity” has the meaning given that term in ORS
676.177.
REPEALS
SECTION 52.
ORS 109.610, 109.660, 435.200 and 435.435 are repealed.
NOTE: Sections 53 through 58 were deleted by amendment. Subsequent sections were  not re-
numbered.
MISCELLANEOUS
Enrolled House Bill 2002 (HB 2002-C) Page 36
SECTION 59. (1) Section 20 of this 2023  Act applies to health benefit plans issued, re-
newed or extended on or after January 1, 2024.
(2) Section 24 of this 2023  Act applies to medical assistance provided and to contracts
with coordinated care organizations for periods beginning on or after January 1, 2024.
(3) The amendments to ORS 243.144 and 243.877 by sections 25 and 26 of this 2023  Act
apply to  health benefit plans offered by the Public Employees’ Benefit Board or the Oregon
Educators Benefit Board that are  issued, renewed or extended on or after January 1, 2024,
and for self-insured  health benefit plans in effect for periods beginning on or after January
1, 2024.
(4) Sections 31 and 35 of this 2023 Act  and the amendments to ORS 675.070, 675.540,
675.745, 677.190, 677.225, 677.320, 678.111, 685.110 and 689.405 by sections 31a to 33, 36 to 38  and
51 of this 2023 Act apply to reproductive and  gender-affirming health care services provided
on or after the effective date of this 2023 Act.
(5) The amendments to ORS 659A.029 by  section 47 of this 2023 Act apply to unlawful
employment discrimination occurring before, on or after the effective date of this 2023 Act.
SECTION 60. The unit captions used in this 2023 Act are provided  only for the conven-
ience of the reader and do not become part of the statutory law of  this state or express any
legislative intent in the enactment of this 2023 Act.
SECTION 61. This 2023 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation  of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist, and  this 2023 Act takes effect
on its passage.
Passed by House May 1, 2023
Repassed by House June 21, 2023
..................................................................................
Timothy G. Sekerak, Chief Clerk of House
..................................................................................
Dan Rayfield, Speaker of House
Passed by Senate June 15, 2023
..................................................................................
Rob Wagner, President of Senate
Received by Governor:
........................M.,........................................................., 2023
Approved:
........................M.,........................................................., 2023
..................................................................................
Tina Kotek, Governor
Filed in Office of Secretary of State:
........................M.,........................................................., 2023
..................................................................................
Secretary of State
Enrolled House Bill 2002 (HB 2002-C) Page 37