82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2023 Regular Session
Enrolled
House Bill 3031
Sponsored by Representative  NERON, Senator DEMBROW; Representatives ANDERSEN, DEXTER,
FAHEY, GRAYBER, HARTMAN, HUDSON, KROPF, LEVY E, NGUYEN H,  NOSSE, PHAM
K, RUIZ, SOSA, Senators LIEBER, MANNING  JR, MEEK, PATTERSON, SOLLMAN (Preses-
sion filed.)
CHAPTER .................................................
AN ACT
Relating to ventilation quality in schools.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
As used in sections 1 to 7 of this 2023 Act:
(1) “ASHRAE” means  the American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-
Conditioning Engineers.
(2) “Certified TAB technician” means an individual certified by the Associated  Air Bal-
ance Council, the National Environmental Balancing Bureau or  the Testing, Adjusting and
Balancing Bureau to test, adjust and balance an HVAC system.
(3) “HVAC” means heating, ventilation and air conditioning.
(4)(a) “Mechanical engineer” means an independent, registered professional engineer, as
defined in ORS 672.002, with professional experience with HVAC systems.
(b) “Mechanical engineer” does not mean a mechanical engineer who is employed  by a
school district or who is affiliated with a contractor hired by  a school district to carry out
the work required under sections 1 to 7 of this 2023 Act.
(5)(a) “Mechanical ventilation system” means  a building ventilation system consisting of
permanent, mechanically powered equipment, such as motor-driven fans and blowers.
(b) “Mechanical ventilation  system” does not include devices such as wind-driven turbine
ventilators, portable air cleaning and filtration devices and mechanically operated windows.
(6) “Ppm” means parts per million.
(7) “Qualified adjusting personnel” means:
(a) A certified TAB technician; or
(b) An individual working under the on-site supervision of a certified TAB technician.
(8) “Qualified testing personnel” means:
(a) A certified TAB technician; or
(b) A person certified to perform ventilation verification  assessments of HVAC systems
through a certification body accredited by the American  National Standards Institute Na-
tional Accreditation Board.
(9) “School district” has the meaning given that term in ORS 332.002.
(10) “Specialty code” has the meaning given that term in ORS 455.010.
(11) “Training agent” has the meaning given that term in ORS 660.010.
Enrolled House Bill 3031 (HB 3031-A) Page 1
SECTION 2. (1) Whenever a school district  undertakes indoor HVAC infrastructure im-
provements using federal and state funds made available to the school district specifically
for such purposes, the school district shall expend such funds toward carrying out the pro-
visions of this section. A school district is  not obligated to carry out the provisions of this
section until funds are so expended.
(2) A school district shall  have a ventilation verification assessment performed by quali-
fied testing personnel at each school facility. The assessment shall be performed at  least
once every five years. The assessment shall include the following:
(a) A  description of HVAC equipment model numbers or serial numbers and a general
description of HVAC equipment.
(b) Testing to determine maximum filter efficiency.
(c) A calculation of the minimum outside air ventilation rates for each occupied area
based on  anticipated occupancy and the minimum required ventilation rate per occupant, as
described in the minimum ventilation rate requirements set forth in the applicable specialty
code.
(d) Physical measurements of outside air rates.
(e) Verification of  the proper operation of ventilation components in accordance with
applicable standards set forth in the specialty code.
(f) Measurement of all air distribution inlets and outlets.
(g) Verification of the proper operation of the HVAC system and that  required mainte-
nance has been performed in accordance with ASHRAE Standard 62.1-2022,  Section 8 and
Table 8-1 and any applicable specialty code.
(h) Verification of control sequences in accordance with the  applicable standards set
forth in the specialty code.
(i) The collection of field data for the installation of a mechanical ventilation  system, if
no mechanical ventilation system exists at the school facility.
(3) Qualified testing personnel shall record the results of the assessment  in a report and
submit the report for review by  a mechanical engineer as described in section 4 of this 2023
Act.
SECTION 3.
(1) Whenever a school district  undertakes indoor HVAC infrastructure im-
provements using federal and state funds made available to the school district specifically
for such purposes, the school district shall expend such funds toward carrying out the pro-
visions of this section. A school district is  not obligated to carry out the provisions of this
section until funds are so expended.
(2) A school district shall ensure that each classroom is equipped with a  carbon dioxide
monitor that meets applicable standards required for carbon dioxide monitors  under the
specialty code and that each monitor:
(a) Is mounted to a wall between three and six feet above the floor and at  least five feet
away from doors and operable windows.
(b) Displays, at a minimum, carbon dioxide level readings that are readily visible  to an
individual who is inside the classroom.
(c) Provides notification by a visual indicator on the monitor that is  made readily visible
to an individual who  is inside the classroom when carbon dioxide levels in the classroom
exceed 1,100 ppm.
(d) Maintains a  record of previous data, which includes at least the maximum carbon
dioxide concentrations measured.
(e) Has a range of at least 400 to 5,000 ppm.
(f) Is certified by the manufacturer to be accurate within 75 ppm at  1,000 ppm carbon
dioxide concentration and is certified by  the manufacturer to require calibration no more
frequently than once every five years.
Enrolled House Bill 3031 (HB 3031-A) Page 2
(3) Qualified testing  personnel shall assess whether carbon dioxide monitors meet the
requirements of this section  and include the assessment in the report submitted to a me-
chanical engineer under section 4 of this 2023 Act.
(4)(a) If a classroom carbon dioxide concentration alarm setpoint  is exceeded for more
than 15 minutes more than  four times during a month, classroom ventilation rates shall be
adjusted or  a direct outside airflow intake flow measurement device installed, and its accu-
racy verified,  to ensure that peak carbon dioxide concentrations in the classroom remain
below the setpoint.
(b) Adjustments shall be performed by qualified adjusting personnel.
(c) Each school shall:
(A) Record all incidents  where the setpoint is breached in a classroom and maintain
these records for at least five years.
(B) Upon request by  a member of the public and free of charge, provide reasonable access
to review the records described  in subparagraph (A) of this paragraph in the central office
of each school facility and in the central administrative office for each school district.
(d) Nothing in paragraph (c) of  this subsection requires the Department of Education to
verify the contents of the records described in paragraph (c) of this subsection.
(5) The Department of Education may, by rules adopted under section 7  of this 2023 Act,
adjust the technical requirements for carbon dioxide  monitors described in this section based
on technological developments and  as is consistent with maintaining proper ventilation in
classrooms in accordance with any applicable standards set forth by the specialty code.
SECTION 4.
(1) Whenever a school  district undertakes indoor HVAC infrastructure im-
provements using federal and state funds made available to the school district specifically
for such purposes, the school district shall expend such funds toward carrying out the pro-
visions of this section. A school district is not obligated  to carry out the provisions of this
section until funds are so expended.
(2) A school district shall obtain  an HVAC assessment report prepared by qualified test-
ing personnel. The report shall include the results of the ventilation verification  assessment
carried out under section 2 of this 2023  Act and a description of whether carbon dioxide
monitors meet the requirements of section 3 of this 2023 Act.
(3) A  school district shall ensure that a mechanical engineer reviews the report prepared
under subsection (2) of this section. The mechanical engineer shall confirm  or adjust the
estimated minimum outside air ventilation  rates and determine what, if any, additional ad-
justments, repairs, upgrades or replacements would  be necessary to meet the minimum
ventilation and filtration requirements of the specialty code, and provide a  cost estimate for
all recommended work.
(4) A school district  shall perform the necessary adjustments, repairs, upgrades or re-
placements recommended by the mechanical engineer under subsection (3) of this section.
SECTION 5.
(1) A school district shall  require a contractor carrying out work on projects
for indoor HVAC infrastructure improvements under sections 1 to 7 of this 2023 Act to:
(a) Participate as  a training agent in an apprenticeship program registered with the State
Apprenticeship and Training Council to provide on-the-job training opportunities for appren-
tices in apprenticeable occupations to perform work on the project;
(b) Establish and implement a plan for  outreach, recruitment and retention of women,
minority individuals and veterans to perform work on the project with the aspirational target
of having at least 15 percent of total work  hours performed by individuals in one or more
of those groups;
(c) Pay wages to workers who perform  work on the project at a rate that is no less than
the prevailing wage rate;
(d) Offer employer-paid family health insurance and retirement  benefits to workers who
perform work on the project;
Enrolled House Bill 3031 (HB 3031-A) Page 3
(e) Demonstrate a history of material compliance in  the previous three years, or provide
available history for a new business, with federal and state wage and hour laws and applica-
ble prevailing wage rate laws;
(f) Demonstrate a history of material compliance in the previous three years, or  provide
available history for a new business, with the rules and other requirements of state agencies
with oversight regarding occupational safety and health; and
(g) Ensure at all times during  the duration of the project that work is performed by
qualified testing personnel or qualified adjusting personnel as required by sections 1 to  7 of
this 2023 Act.
(2)(a) In lieu of complying with the requirements described under subsection  (1) of this
section, a contractor may provide the school district with a  copy of a project labor agree-
ment and  shall be exempted from the requirements described in subsection (1) of this sec-
tion.
(b) As used in this subsection, “project labor  agreement” means a project labor agree-
ment as defined in 48 C.F.R. 52.222-34, as in effect on the effective date of this 2023 Act.
SECTION 6.
(1) If a school district completes the work recommended by a  mechanical
engineer under section 4 of this 2023 Act, the  school district shall, within 30 days of com-
pleting the  work, submit to the Department of Education an HVAC verification report that
includes:
(a) The name and address of the school facility  and the name and address of the person
preparing the report.
(b) A description of assessment, maintenance, adjustment, repair, upgrade and  replace-
ment activities performed and outcomes, including:
(A) The minimum efficiency reporting value of the filtration system.
(B) Verification that ventilation rates  for facility classrooms, auditoriums, gymnasiums,
nurses’ offices, restrooms, offices and other occupiable indoor  spaces meet the minimum
ventilation rate requirements set  forth in the specialty code or an explanation of why the
current system is unable to meet those requirements.
(C) Verified  exhaust rates for facility classrooms, auditoriums, gymnasiums, nurses’ of-
fices, restrooms, offices and  other occupiable indoor spaces and whether those rates meet
the requirements of the system design.
(D) Documentation of initial operating  verifications, adjustments and final operating
verifications.
(E) Verification that carbon dioxide monitors have been installed  and are operating in
compliance with section 3 of this 2023 Act.
(F) Verification that work performed  satisfies the workforce standards described in sec-
tion 5 of this 2023 Act, including providing the names and certification  or license numbers
of contractors, qualified testing personnel and qualified adjusting personnel.
(2) The department shall maintain  a copy of the report required under this section for
at least five years.
(3) The HVAC verification report described in this section is subject to  inspection as a
public record under ORS 192.311 to 192.478.
(4) Nothing in this section requires the department to verify the  contents of a HVAC
verification report described in this section.
SECTION 7.
The Department of Education may  adopt rules as necessary to carry out
sections 1 to 7 of this 2023 Act.
Enrolled House Bill 3031 (HB 3031-A) Page 4
Passed by House May 23, 2023
..................................................................................
Timothy G. Sekerak, Chief Clerk of House
..................................................................................
Dan Rayfield, Speaker of House
Passed by Senate June 23, 2023
..................................................................................
Rob Wagner, President of Senate
Received by Governor:
........................M.,........................................................., 2023
Approved:
........................M.,........................................................., 2023
..................................................................................
Tina Kotek, Governor
Filed in Office of Secretary of State:
........................M.,........................................................., 2023
..................................................................................
Secretary of State
Enrolled House Bill 3031 (HB 3031-A) Page 5