81st OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2021 Regular Session
Enrolled
House Bill 2417
Sponsored by Representatives SANCHEZ,  MARSH, SOLLMAN; Representatives ALONSO LEON,
CAMPOS, DEXTER,  EVANS, FAHEY, GOMBERG, GRAYBER, HOLVEY, KROPF, MCLAIN,
NERON, NOSSE, PHAM,  PRUSAK, REARDON, REYNOLDS, RUIZ, SCHOUTEN, WILDE,
WILLIAMS, Senators GELSER, LIEBER, PATTERSON, WAGNER (Presession filed.)
CHAPTER .................................................
AN ACT
Relating to crisis intervention  resources; creating new provisions; amending ORS 403.110, 403.115
and 403.135; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1. As used in sections 1 to 3 of this 2021 Act:
(1) “Coordinated care organization” has the meaning given that term in ORS 414.025.
(2) “Crisis stabilization center” means a  facility licensed by the Oregon Health Authority
that meets the requirements adopted  by the authority by rule under section 2 of this 2021
Act.
(3) “Crisis stabilization services”  includes diagnosis, stabilization, observation and
follow-up referral services provided to individuals  in a community-based, developmentally
appropriate homelike environment to the extent practicable.
(4) “Mobile crisis intervention team” means a team  of qualified behavioral health pro-
fessionals that may include peer support specialists, as defined in ORS 414.025, and  other
health care providers such as nurses or  social workers who provide timely, developmentally
appropriate and  trauma-informed interventions, screening, assessment, de-escalation and
other services necessary to stabilize an individual experiencing a behavioral health crisis in
accordance with requirements established by the authority by rule.
(5) “Peer respite center” means voluntary, nonclinical, short-term residential  peer sup-
port provided:
(a) In a homelike setting to individuals  with mental illness, substance use disorder or
trauma response symptoms who are experiencing acute distress, anxiety or emotional  pain
that may lead to the need for a higher  level of care such as psychiatric inpatient hospital
services; and
(b) By a peer-run organization and directed and delivered  by individuals with lived expe-
rience in coping with, seeking recovery from  or overcoming mental illness, substance use
disorder or trauma response challenges.
(6) “Veterans Crisis Line” means the crisis hotline maintained by  the United States De-
partment of Veterans Affairs and the United States Department of Health and Human  Ser-
vices.
SECTION 2.
(1) The purposes of sections 1 to 3 of  this 2021 Act are to build upon and
improve the statewide coordinated crisis system in this state and to:
Enrolled House Bill 2417 (HB 2417-B) Page 1
(a) Remove barriers to accessing quality behavioral health crisis services;
(b) Improve  equity in behavioral health treatment and ensure culturally, linguistically
and developmentally appropriate responses to individuals experiencing behavioral health cri-
ses, in recognition that,  historically, crisis response services placed marginalized communi-
ties at disproportionate risk of poor outcomes and criminal justice involvement;
(c) Ensure that all residents of this state receive  a consistent and effective level of be-
havioral health crisis services no matter where they live, work or travel in the state; and
(d) Provide increased access to quality community behavioral  health services to prevent
interactions with the criminal justice system and prevent hospitalizations, if appropriate,  by
investing in:
(A) New technology for a crisis  call center system to triage calls and link individuals to
follow-up care;
(B) The expansion of mobile crisis intervention teams; and
(C) A wide array of crisis stabilization services, including services provided by:
(i) Crisis stabilization centers;
(ii) Facilities offering short-term respite services;
(iii) Peer respite centers;
(iv) Behavioral health urgent care walk-in centers; and
(v) A crisis hotline center to receive calls, texts and chats from  individuals or other
crisis hotlines to provide crisis intervention services  and crisis care coordination anywhere
in this state 24 hours per day, seven days per week, 365 days per year.
(2) The Oregon Health Authority shall adopt by rule requirements for  crisis stabilization
centers that, at a minimum, require a center to:
(a) Be designed to prevent or ameliorate a behavioral health crisis or  reduce acute
symptoms of  mental illness or substance use disorder, for individuals who do not require
inpatient treatment, by providing continuous 24-hour observation and supervision;
(b) Be staffed 24 hours per day, seven days per week, 365 days per year  by a multidisci-
plinary team capable of meeting the needs of individuals  in the community experiencing all
levels of crisis, that may include, but is not limited to:
(A) Psychiatrists or psychiatric nurse practitioners;
(B) Nurses;
(C) Licensed or  credentialed clinicians in the region where the crisis stabilization center
is located who are capable of completing assessments; and
(D) Peers  with lived experiences similar to the experiences of the individuals served by
the center;
(c) Have a policy prohibiting rejecting patients brought  in or referred by first responders,
and have the capacity, at least 90 percent of the time, to accept all referrals;
(d) Have services to address substance use crisis issues;
(e) Have the  capacity to assess physical health needs and provide needed care and a
procedure for transferring an individual, if necessary, to a setting that can meet  the
individual’s physical health needs if the facility is unable to provide the level of care required;
(f) Offer walk-in and first responder drop-off options;
(g) Screen for suicide  risk and complete comprehensive suicide risk assessments and
planning when clinically indicated;
(h) Screen for violence risk  and complete more comprehensive violence risk assessments
and planning when clinically indicated; and
(i) Meet other requirements prescribed by the authority.
(3) The authority shall establish a crisis hotline center to  receive calls, texts and chats
from the 9-8-8 suicide prevention and behavioral health crisis hotline  and to provide crisis
intervention services and crisis care coordination anywhere in this state 24 hours per day,
seven days per week. The crisis hotline center shall:
(a) Have an agreement to  participate in the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline network.
Enrolled House Bill 2417 (HB 2417-B) Page 2
(b) Meet National Suicide  Prevention Lifeline requirements and best practices guidelines
for operational and clinical standards and any additional  clinical and operational standards
prescribed by the authority.
(c) Record data, provide reports and participate in  evaluations and related quality im-
provement activities.
(d) Establish  formal agreements to collaborate with other agencies to ensure safe, inte-
grated care for people  in crisis who reach out to the 9-8-8 suicide prevention and behavioral
health crisis hotline.
(e) Contact  and coordinate with the local community mental health programs for rapid
deployment of a local mobile crisis intervention team and follow-up services as needed.
(f) Utilize technologies, including chat and text applications, to provide a no-wrong-door
approach for individuals seeking help from the crisis hotline and ensure collaboration among
crisis and emergency response systems used throughout this  state, such as 9-1-1 and 2-1-1,
and with other centers in the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline network.
(g) Establish policies and  train staff on serving high-risk and specialized populations, in-
cluding but not limited to lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender  and queer youth, minorities,
veterans and individuals who have served in the military, rural residents and individuals with
co-occurring disorders. Policies and training established under this paragraph must include:
(A) Policies  and training on transferring calls made to the 9-8-8 suicide prevention and
behavioral health crisis hotline to an appropriate specialized center within or external to the
National Suicide Prevention Lifeline network; and
(B) Training on providing linguistically and culturally competent care and follow-up ser-
vices to individuals accessing the 9-8-8 suicide prevention and behavioral  health crisis hotline
consistent with guidance and policies established by the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline.
(4) The staff of the crisis hotline center described in subsection (3) of this section shall:
(a) Have access to the  most recently reported information regarding available mental
health and behavioral health crisis services.
(b) Track and maintain data regarding responses to calls, texts and chats  to the 9-8-8
suicide prevention and behavioral health crisis hotline.
(c) Work to resolve crises with the least invasive intervention possible.
(d) Connect callers whose crisis is de-escalated or otherwise managed by hotline  staff
with appropriate follow-on services and undertake follow-up  contact with the caller when
appropriate.
(5) Crisis stabilization services provided to individuals accessing  the 9-8-8 suicide pre-
vention and behavioral health crisis hotline shall be reimbursed by the authority, coordinated
care organizations or commercial insurance, depending on the individual’s insurance status.
(6) The authority  shall adopt rules to allow appropriate information sharing and com-
munication across  all crisis service providers as necessary to carry out the requirements of
this section and shall work in concert with the National  Suicide Prevention Lifeline and the
Veterans Crisis Line  for the purposes of ensuring consistency of public messaging about 9-8-8
suicide prevention and behavioral health crisis hotline services.
SECTION 3.
(1) In  consultation with local community mental health programs, the
Oregon Health Authority shall, to the extent funding  is available, require each community
mental health program to provide  crisis stabilization services to individuals contacting the
9-8-8 suicide prevention  and behavioral health crisis hotline who need crisis stabilization
services in the community by enhancing and expanding the use of mobile crisis intervention
teams.
(2) A city may request funding from a county to establish and maintain one or more
mobile crisis intervention teams.
(3) Mobile crisis intervention teams must operate in compliance with rules  adopted by
the authority.
Enrolled House Bill 2417 (HB 2417-B) Page 3
SECTION 4. No later than January 1, 2022, the Oregon Health Authority shall  report to
the interim committees of the Legislative Assembly related to mental or  behavioral health,
in the manner  provided in ORS 192.245, recommendations on policies, legislative changes, if
any, and funding  to implement the National Suicide Hotline Designation Act of 2020 (P.L.
116-172) and establish a statewide coordinated crisis services system.  The report shall ad-
dress or include:
(1) The establishment of the crisis hotline center under section 2 (3) of this 2021 Act to
receive calls, texts and chats from the  9-8-8 suicide prevention and behavioral health crisis
hotline, including coordination with mobile crisis intervention teams and other crisis services
and projected costs for the necessary technology and ongoing operations;
(2) Projections for increased crisis stabilization services to meet the needs of  individuals
accessing the 9-8-8 suicide prevention and behavioral health crisis hotline, including:
(a) Policies and funding to provide access  to adequate mobile crisis intervention teams
statewide, addressing ongoing funding from Medicaid, commercial insurance or other funding
sources, to coordinated mobile crisis response  services between cities and counties and the
appropriate number of teams and staffing;
(b) Policies and funding to provide statewide access to crisis stabilization centers, as de-
fined in section 1 of this 2021 Act, addressing the statutory framework for such centers, li-
censing or regulatory structures, ongoing funding that maximizes Medicaid  and commercial
insurance, and a plan for the location and number of such facilities;
(c) Policies and funding to  provide access to other crisis services, including peer respite
centers, as defined  in section 1 of this 2021 Act, behavioral health urgent care walk-in cen-
ters or other services for specific populations; and
(d) How the continuum of crisis services proposed in the report will:
(A) Address the needs of Oregonians  in all stages of life who experience behavioral health
crises; and
(B) Improve  health equity by addressing the preventable differences in the burden of
disease, injury, violence or opportunities to achieve optimal health that are experienced  by
socially disadvantaged populations;
(3) Proposed strategies and policies for coordination with 9-1-1 and law enforcement;
(4) Projections and  proposed timeline for implementing the National Suicide Hotline
Designation Act of 2020 (P.L. 116-172), and in particular for expanded service capacity  and
any proposed capital development, workforce needs or need  for legislative changes or policies
to remove barriers to the expansion of services;
(5) Whether a fee should be proposed to pay expenses that the  state is expected to incur
for:
(a) Ensuring  the efficient and effective routing of calls made to the 9-8-8 suicide pre-
vention and behavioral health  crisis hotline to an appropriate crisis center and personnel;
and
(b) Providing acute behavioral health, crisis  outreach and stabilization services by di-
rectly responding to the 9-8-8 suicide prevention and behavioral health crisis hotline;
(6) If a fee is proposed:
(a) The proposed fee amount;
(b) The proposed mechanism for the fee, including the type of telecommunications lines
or accounts on which the fee will be imposed;
(c) The allocation of  the fee revenue, including the crisis services to which the fee will
be allocated, the estimated cost of those services, and whether any portion of the fee revenue
will be eligible for Medicaid match; and
(d) Whether the proposed fee revenue will supplant any existing funding;
(7) An assessment of existing and proposed crisis response services and any  recommen-
dations to improve the delivery and cost efficiency of crisis response services while main-
taining quality care; and
Enrolled House Bill 2417 (HB 2417-B) Page 4
(8) An assessment of existing and proposed crisis response services and any  recommen-
dations for maximizing federal financial participation in the funding of the services.
SECTION 5. The Oregon Health Authority may establish committees in accordance with
ORS 430.075 or assign tasks to existing agencies, boards or  committees to accomplish the
planning required for implementation or ongoing oversight  of sections 1 to 3 of this 2021 Act
in coordination with the crisis  hotline center established under section 2 (3) of this 2021 Act,
the Office of Emergency Management, local public  health and mental health authorities,
hospitals and health systems, coordinated care organizations, as defined  in ORS 414.025,
telecommunication providers and the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline  Local Mental
Health Authority, certified peer support specialists,  as defined in ORS 414.025, 9-1-1, law
enforcement, individuals with lived experiences  in mental illness or substance use disorder,
consumers of behavioral health  services, including youth and families, and other
stakeholders identified by the authority.
SECTION 6.  ORS 403.110 is amended to read:
403.110. (1) A provider , [ or] a 9-1-1 jurisdiction , a 9-8-8 coordinated crisis services  system  or
the employees or agents of a provider , [ or] a 9-1-1  jurisdiction  or a 9-8-8 coordinated crisis ser-
vices system  may be held civilly liable for the installation, performance, provision  or maintenance
of a 9-1-1 emergency reporting system , [ or] enhanced 9-1-1 telephone  service  or a 9-8-8 telephone
service if the provider , [ or] the 9-1-1 jurisdiction , the 9-8-8 coordinated crisis services system
or the employees or agents of the provider , [ or] the 9-1-1 jurisdiction  or 9-8-8  coordinated crisis
services system  act with willful or wanton conduct.
(2) A  provider or seller is not liable for damages that result from providing or failing to provide
access to the emergency communications system , the 9-8-8 coordinated crisis services  system  or
from identifying or failing to identify  the telephone number, address, location or name associated
with any person or device accessing or attempting to access  the emergency communications system
or the 9-8-8 coordinated crisis services system .
(3) This section does  not affect any liability a 9-1-1 jurisdiction may have for employee
negligence in receiving emergency calls from the  public and dispatching emergency services to the
public.
SECTION 7.  ORS 403.115 is amended to read:
403.115. (1) The primary emergency telephone number within this  state is 9-1-1, but a public or
private safety agency shall maintain both a separate 10-digit secondary emergency  number for use
by a telephone operator or provider and a separate 10-digit nonemergency number.
(2) Every public and private safety agency  in this state shall participate in the emergency
communications system.
(3) An emergency telephone number other than 9-1-1 may not be  published on the top three-
quarters of the  emergency listing page of a telephone book. However, an alternative nonemergency
telephone number for a 9-1-1 jurisdiction may  be printed on the top three-quarters of the emergency
listing page of a telephone book. The  publisher may use the remainder of the page to list the Oregon
Poison Center, Federal Bureau of Investigation, [ a designated mental  health crises service ] 9-8-8 co-
ordinated crisis services system  and United States  Coast Guard, where applicable. [If there is
more than one mental health crises service in a  jurisdiction, the local health department shall decide
which mental health crises service the publisher may list by  using the criteria of a 24-hour staffed
service, nonprofit organization and non-9-1-1 participating agency. ] The publisher shall refer to the
community services section for other numbers.
(4) The emergency communications system must provide:
(a) Interconnectivity between public safety answering points and  interconnectivity with provid-
ers of the same or similar emergency response services nationally;
(b) The capability, within each primary public safety answering point,  to receive all emergency
calls placed locally within each 9-1-1 service area; and
(c) The automatic location identification accurately portraying the location from which  each
emergency call originates.
Enrolled House Bill 2417 (HB 2417-B) Page 5
SECTION 8.  ORS 403.135 is amended to read:
403.135. (1) A provider may not block delivery or forwarding to a public safety  answering point
of location  or a 9-8-8 coordinated crisis services system  information, a call-back number  or other
identifying information related to an emergency call.
(2) Automatic number identifications received by public safety answering  points  and 9-8-8 co-
ordinated crisis services system  are confidential and are not  subject to public disclosure unless
and until  an official report is written by the public or private safety agency and that agency does
not withhold  the telephone number under ORS 192.311 to 192.478 or other state and federal laws.
The official report  of a public safety answering point  or a 9-8-8 coordinated crisis services sys-
tem may not include  nonpublished or nonlisted telephone numbers. The official report of a public
or private safety agency may not include nonpublished or nonlisted telephone numbers. Nonpub-
lished or nonlisted telephone numbers are not otherwise subject to public  disclosure without the
permission of the subscriber.
(3) A provider is not subject to an  action for civil damages for providing in good faith confi-
dential or nonpublic  information, including nonpublished and nonlisted subscriber information, to
emergency  and 9-8-8  services providers who are:
(a) Responding to an emergency call;
(b) Responding to emergency situations that involve the risk  of death or serious physical harm
to an individual, as provided in ORS 403.132; or
(c) Notifying the public of an emergency.
(4) Subsection (3) of this section does not compel a  provider to provide nonpublished and non-
listed subscriber information directly to emergency  or 9-8-8  services providers or law  enforcement
agencies prior to placement of an emergency call without process of law.
(5) Subscriber information acquired by a 9-1-1 jurisdiction  or the 9-8-8 coordinated  crisis
services system  for the purpose of  providing emergency communications services under ORS
403.105 to 403.250 or coordinated crisis services under  sections 1 to 3 of this 2021 Act  is not
subject to public disclosure and may not be used by other public agencies except:
(a) To respond to an emergency call;
(b) To respond to an  emergency situation that involves the risk of death or serious physical
harm to an individual, as provided in ORS 403.132; or
(c) To notify the public of an emergency by utilizing an automated  notification system if a pro-
vider has provided subscriber information to the 9-1-1 jurisdiction or emergency services provider.
SECTION 9.
In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation,  there is appropri-
ated to  the Oregon Health Authority, for the biennium beginning July 1, 2021, out of the
General Fund, the amount of:
(1) $5,000,000, which may be expended for costs associated with the crisis hotline  center
established in section 2 of this 2021 Act; and
(2) $10,000,000, for distribution to counties to establish and maintain mobile crisis inter-
vention teams.
SECTION 10. This 2021 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation  of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency  is declared to exist, and this 2021 Act takes effect
July 1, 2021.
Enrolled House Bill 2417 (HB 2417-B) Page 6
Passed by House June 24, 2021
..................................................................................
Timothy G. Sekerak, Chief Clerk of House
..................................................................................
Tina Kotek, Speaker of House
Passed by Senate June 26, 2021
..................................................................................
Peter Courtney, President of Senate
Received by Governor:
........................M.,........................................................., 2021
Approved:
........................M.,........................................................., 2021
..................................................................................
Kate Brown, Governor
Filed in Office of Secretary of State:
........................M.,........................................................., 2021
..................................................................................
Shemia Fagan, Secretary of State
Enrolled House Bill 2417 (HB 2417-B) Page 7