1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
80th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2019 Regular Session
House Bill 3090
Sponsored by Representative CLEM
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Establishes beginning  farmer and rancher incentive program in State Department of Agriculture.
Requires department to establish types of incentives to provide to beginning farmers and ranchers.
Establishes Beginning Farmer and Rancher Incentive  Fund. Continuously appropriates moneys
in fund to department for purposes of incentive program.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to incentives for beginning farmers and ranchers.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) There is created in the State Department of Agriculture  a beginning
farmer and rancher incentive program for the purpose of assisting beginning  farmers and
ranchers in this state. The department shall prescribe by rule:
(a) Participant eligibility criteria,  including the types of farmers and ranchers who may
participate in the program.
(b) The terms and conditions of participation in the program.
(c) The types of incentives that may be provided, including but not limited to:
(A) Loan repayment subsidies;
(B) Stipends; and
(C) Scholarships for students at  institutions of higher education based in this state who
are enrolled in training programs aimed at  preparing students to be farmers and ranchers,
if:
(i) The scholarship funds are distributed equitably among schools offering  the training
programs, based on the percentage of Oregon students attending those schools; and
(ii) The  maximum scholarship for each student does not exceed the highest resident tui-
tion rate at publicly funded farming or ranching training programs in this state.
(d) If the funds  allocated to the program from the Beginning Farmer and Rancher In-
centive Fund established under section 2 of this 2019 Act are  insufficient to provide assist-
ance to all of the applicants who are eligible to participate  in the program, the priority for
the distribution of funds.
(e) The financial penalties imposed  on an individual who fails to comply with terms and
conditions of participation.
(2) Eligibility requirements adopted for the program must give preference to applicants
who commit to:
(a) Producing food for local and regional markets; or
(b) Using organic practices.
(3) The department may enter into contracts with one or more public or private entities
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2579
HB 3090
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
to administer the beginning farmer and rancher incentive program or parts of the program.
(4) The department shall decide no later than September 1  of each academic year the
distribution of funds for scholarships that will be provided in the next academic year.
(5) The department may receive gifts, grants or contributions from  any source, whether
public or private,  to carry out the provisions of this section. Moneys received under this
subsection shall be deposited in the Beginning Farmer and Rancher Incentive Fund estab-
lished under section 2 of this 2019 Act.
SECTION 2.
The Beginning Farmer and Rancher Incentive  Fund is established in the
State Treasury, separate and distinct from the General Fund. Interest  earned by the Begin-
ning Farmer and Rancher Incentive Fund shall be credited to the fund. The fund  consists
of moneys appropriated to the fund by the Legislative Assembly  and gifts, grants or other
moneys contributed to the fund by any source, whether  public or private. Moneys in the fund
are continuously appropriated to the State Department of Agriculture to carry out section
1 of this 2019 Act.
[2]