1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2993
Sponsored by Representative NELSON; Representative MUNOZ (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act tells the OMB and OSBN to offer classes and forms to help  health care pro-
viders communicate with their patients. (Flesch Readability Score: 68.6).
Directs  the  Oregon Medical Board and Oregon State Board of Nursing to offer language edu-
cation to health care providers  regulated by the boards and make available patient forms in lan-
guages patients can comfortably communicate.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to linguistically appropriate health care.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) In order to increase the number of health care providers who can  com-
municate fluently with patients in the patient’s language, the  Oregon Medical Board and the
Oregon State Board of Nursing shall, in  conjunction, establish a program to offer language
education to health care providers regulated by the boards.
(2) The boards shall collaborate, and may contract with  third parties as necessary, to
ensure that any forms required to be completed by a patient of a health care provider regu-
lated by the boards are available  in the patient’s first language or a language in which the
patient can comfortably communicate.
(3) The boards may determine by rule the specific languages in which to offer  the edu-
cation and the forms described in this section.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2402