80th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2019 Regular Session
Enrolled
House Bill 2209
Introduced and printed pursuant to House Rule 12.00. Presession filed (at the request of House In-
terim Committee on Veterans and Emergency Preparedness)
CHAPTER .................................................
AN ACT
Relating to safe transportation of oil; creating new provisions; and amending ORS 453.392, 468B.300,
468B.305, 468B.340, 468B.365, 468B.385, 468B.410 and 468B.495.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
CONTINGENCY PLANNING FOR HIGH HAZARD TRAIN ROUTES
(Definitions)
SECTION 1.  ORS 468B.300 is amended to read:
468B.300. As used in ORS 468.020, 468.095, 468.140 (3) and 468B.300 to 468B.500:
(1) “Bulk” means material stored or transported in loose,  unpackaged liquid, powder or granular
form capable of being conveyed by a pipe, bucket, chute or belt system.
(2) “Cargo vessel” means a self-propelled ship in commerce, other than a  tank vessel, of 300
gross tons or more. “Cargo vessel” does not include a vessel used solely for commercial fish har-
vesting.
(3) “Commercial fish harvesting” means taking food fish with any gear unlawful for angling un-
der ORS 506.006, or taking  food fish in excess of the limits permitted for personal use, or taking food
fish with the intent of disposing of such food fish  or parts thereof for profit, or by sale, barter or
trade, in commercial channels.
(4) “Contingency plan” means an oil spill prevention and emergency response plan required un-
der ORS 468B.345  or section 5 of this 2019 Act .
(5) “Covered vessel” means a tank vessel, cargo vessel, passenger vessel or dredge vessel.
(6) “Damages” includes damages, costs, losses, penalties  or attorney fees of any kind for which
liability may exist under the laws of this state resulting from, arising out  of or related to the dis-
charge or threatened discharge of oil.
(7) “Discharge” means any emission  other than natural seepage of oil, whether intentional or
unintentional. “Discharge” includes but is not limited to spilling, leaking,  pumping, pouring, emit-
ting, emptying or dumping oil.
(8) “Dredge vessel” means a self-propelled vessel of 300 or more gross tons that is equipped  for
regularly engaging in dredging of submerged and submersible lands.
(9) “Exploration facility” means a  platform, vessel or other offshore facility used to explore for
oil in the navigable waters of the state. “Exploration facility” does not  include platforms or vessels
used for stratigraphic  drilling or other operations that are not authorized or intended to drill to a
producing  formation.
Enrolled House Bill 2209 (HB 2209-A) Page 1
(10) “Facility” means a pipeline or any structure, group of structures, equipment or device, other
than a vessel that transfers oil over  navigable waters of the state, that is used for producing, stor-
ing, handling, transferring, processing or transporting oil in bulk and that is  capable of storing or
transporting 10,000 or more gallons of oil. “Facility” does not include:
(a) A railroad car, motor vehicle or other rolling stock while transporting oil over  the highways
or rail lines of this state;
(b) An underground storage tank  regulated by the Department of Environmental Quality or a
local government under ORS 466.706 to 466.882 and 466.994; or
(c) A marina, or a public fueling station, that is engaged exclusively in the direct sale  of fuel,
or any other product used for propulsion, to a final user of the fuel or other product.
(11) “Federal on-scene coordinator” means the federal official predesignated by  the United
States Environmental Protection Agency or  the United States Coast Guard to coordinate and direct
federal responses or the official designated by the  lead agency to coordinate and direct removal
under the National Contingency Plan.
(12) “Hazardous material” has the meaning given that term in ORS 466.605.
(13) “High hazard train route” means a section of rail lines in this state:
(a) That abuts or travels over navigable  waters, a drinking water source or an inland
location that is one quarter mile or less from the waters of the state; and
(b) Over which trains operate that, in a single train, transport:
(A) 20 or more tank railroad cars in a continuous block that are loaded with oil; or
(B) 35 or more tank railroad cars loaded with oil that are spread throughout the entirety
of the rolling stock, not including the locomotive, that make up the train.
[(13)] (14) “Maritime association” means an association or cooperative of marine  terminals, fa-
cilities, vessel owners,  vessel operators, vessel agents or other maritime industry groups, that pro-
vides oil spill response planning and spill related communications services within the state.
[(14)] (15) “Maximum probable spill” means the  maximum probable spill for a vessel operating
in the navigable waters of the state considering the history  of spills of vessels of the same class
operating on the west coast of the United States.
(16) “National Contingency Plan” means the plan  prepared and published under section
311(d) of the Federal Water Pollution Control  Act, 33 U.S.C. 1321(d), as amended by the Oil
Pollution Act of 1990 (P.L. 101-380).
[(15)] (17) “Navigable waters” means the Columbia River, the Willamette  River up to Willamette
Falls, the Pacific Ocean and estuaries to the head of tidewater.
[(16) “National Contingency Plan” means the plan prepared and published under section 311(d)  of
the Federal Water  Pollution Control Act, 33 U.S.C. 1321(d), as amended by the Oil Pollution Act of
1990 (P.L. 101-380).]
[(17)] (18)  “Offshore facility” means any facility located in, on or under  any of the navigable
waters of the state.
[(18)] (19) “Oils” or “oil” means :
(a) Oil,  including gasoline, crude oil, bitumen, synthetic crude oil, natural gas well
condensate, fuel oil, diesel oil, lubricating oil, sludge, oil refuse and any other petroleum related
product ; and
(b) Liquefied natural gas.
[(19)] (20) “Onshore facility” means  any facility located in, on or under any land of the state,
other than  submerged land, that, because of its location, could reasonably be expected to cause
substantial harm to the environment by discharging oil into or on  the navigable waters of the state
or adjoining shorelines.
[(20)] (21) “Passenger vessel” means a ship of 300 or more gross tons carrying passengers for
compensation.
[(21)] (22) “Person” has the meaning given the term in ORS 468.005.
Enrolled House Bill 2209 (HB 2209-A) Page 2
[(22)] (23)  “Person having control  over oil” includes but is not limited to any person using,
storing or transporting oil immediately prior to  entry of such oil into the navigable waters of the
state, and shall specifically include carriers and bailees of such oil.
[(23)] (24) “Pipeline”  means a facility, including piping, compressors, pump stations and storage
tanks, used to transport oil between facilities or between facilities and tank vessels.
[(24)] (25) “Region of operation” with respect to the holder of a contingency plan means the area
where the operations of the holder that require a contingency plan are located.
[(25)] (26)  “Removal costs” means the costs of removal that are incurred  after a discharge of
oil has occurred or, in any case in which there is  a substantial threat of a discharge of oil, the costs
to prevent, minimize or mitigate oil pollution from the incident.
[(26)] (27)  “Responsible party” has the meaning given under  section 1001 of the Oil Pollution
Act of 1990 (P.L. 101-380).
[(27)] (28) “Ship” means any boat, ship, vessel, barge or other floating craft of any kind.
[(28)(a)] (29)(a)  “State on-scene  coordinator” means the state official appointed by the Depart-
ment of Environmental Quality to represent the department and the State of Oregon in response  to
an oil or hazardous material spill or release or threatened  spill or release and to coordinate cleanup
response with state and local agencies.
(b) For purposes of this subsection:
(A) “Spill  or release” means the discharge, deposit, injection, dumping, spilling, emitting, re-
leasing, leaking or placing of any oil or hazardous material into the air or into or  on any land or
waters of this state except as authorized by a permit  issued under ORS chapter 454, 459, 459A, 468,
468A, 468B or 469 or  ORS 466.005 to 466.385, 466.990 (1) and (2) or 466.992 or federal law, or except
when being stored or used for its intended purpose.
(B) “Threatened spill or  release” means oil or hazardous material is likely to escape or be car-
ried into the air  or into or on any land or waters of the state, including from a ship as defined in
this section that is in imminent danger of sinking.
[(29)] (30)  “Tank vessel” means a ship that is constructed or adapted to carry oil  in bulk as
cargo or cargo residue. “Tank vessel” does not include:
(a) A vessel carrying oil in drums, barrels or other packages;
(b) A vessel carrying oil as fuel or stores for that vessel; or
(c) An oil spill response barge or vessel.
[(30)] (31) “Worst case spill” means:
(a) In the case  of a vessel, a spill of the entire cargo and fuel of the tank vessel complicated
by adverse weather conditions; [ and]
(b) In the case of an onshore or offshore  facility, the largest foreseeable spill in adverse weather
conditions[ .]; and
(c) In the case of a high hazard train route, the greater of:
(A) 300,000 gallons of oil from a single train; or
(B) 15 percent  of the total lading of oil transported within the largest single train rea-
sonably expected to transport oil over the high hazard train route.
(Entry of Oil Into Waters of The State Prohibited)
SECTION 2.
 ORS 468B.305 is amended to read:
468B.305. (1) It shall be unlawful for oil to enter the waters of the state from any ship  or high
hazard train route  or  from  any fixed or mobile facility or installation located offshore or onshore,
whether publicly or privately operated, regardless  of the cause of the entry or the fault of the per-
son having control over the oil, or regardless of whether the entry is the result of intentional  or
negligent conduct, accident  or other cause. Such entry constitutes pollution of the waters of the
state.
(2) Subsection (1) of this section shall not apply to the entry of oil  into the waters of the state
under the following circumstances:
Enrolled House Bill 2209 (HB 2209-A) Page 3
(a) The person discharging the oil was expressly authorized to  do so by the Department of En-
vironmental Quality, having obtained a permit therefor required by ORS 468B.050;
(b) Notwithstanding  any other provision of ORS 466.640, 468B.025 or 468B.050 or this section,
the person discharging the oil  was expressly authorized to do so by a federal on-scene coordinator
or the department in connection with activities related to the removal of or  response to oil that
entered the waters of the state; or
(c) The person having control over the oil can prove that the entry thereof into the  waters of
the state was caused by:
(A) An act of war or sabotage or an act of God.
(B) Negligence on the part of the United States Government, or the State of Oregon.
(C) An act or omission of a third party without regard to whether any such act or omission  was
or was not negligent.
(Contingency Planning Requirements)
SECTION 3.
 ORS 468B.340 is amended to read:
468B.340. (1) The Legislative Assembly finds that:
(a) Oil spills present a serious danger to the fragile natural environment of the state.
(b) Commercial vessel activity on the navigable waters  of the state is vital to the economic in-
terests of the people of the state.
(c) Recent studies conducted in the wake of  disastrous oil spills have identified the following
problems in the transport and storage of oil:
(A) Gaps in regulatory oversight;
(B) Incomplete cost recovery by states;
(C) Despite research in spill cleanup technology, it is unlikely that a large percentage  of oil can
be recovered from a catastrophic spill;
(D) Because response efforts cannot effectively reduce the impact of  oil spills, prevention is the
most effective approach to oil spill management; and
(E) Comprehensive oil spill prevention demands  participation by industry, citizens, environ-
mental organizations and local, state, federal and international governments.
(2) Therefore, the Legislative Assembly declares it is the intent of ORS  468B.345 to 468B.415 to
establish a program to promote:
(a) The prevention of oil spills especially on the large, navigable waters of the Columbia River,
the Willamette River and the Oregon coast;
(b) The prevention of oil spills along high hazard train routes;
[(b)] (c)  Oil spill response preparedness, including  the identification of actions and content re-
quired for an effective contingency plan;
[(c)] (d) A consistent west coast approach to oil spill prevention and response;
[(d)] (e)  The establishment, coordination  and duties of safety committees as provided in ORS
468B.415; and
[(e)] (f)  To the maximum extent possible, coordination of state programs with the programs  and
regulations of the United States Coast Guard and adjacent states.
SECTION 4.
Sections 5, 8, 9, 10, 13 and 14 of this 2019 Act are added to  and made a part
of ORS 468B.300 to 468B.500.
SECTION 5.  (1) A railroad that owns or  operates a high hazard train route in this state
shall have an oil spill prevention and emergency response plan  that has been approved by the
Department of Environmental Quality.
(2)(a) A railroad must submit a contingency plan for a high hazard train  route to the
department within 90 days after the date that operation of trains that cause a section of rail
lines to meet the definition of  a high hazard train route commences on that section of rail
lines, or within a longer time period that is mutually agreed upon by the department  and the
railroad if the department and railroad agree that the longer time period is necessary.
Enrolled House Bill 2209 (HB 2209-A) Page 4
(b) In addition to meeting the requirement of  paragraph (a) of this subsection and im-
mediately after the  date that operation of trains that cause a section of rail lines to meet
the definition of a high hazard train route commences on that section  of rail lines, a railroad
shall provide notice to the department that the railroad has commenced operation  of a high
hazard train route. Notice provided pursuant to this paragraph shall include:
(A) Identification of the high hazard train route for which the notice is provided;
(B) The names, addresses, phone numbers and electronic mail addresses for  the primary
contact for the railroad that owns  or operates the high hazard train route and for the local
primary contacts for the railroad that owns or operates the high hazard train route; and
(C) A statement of whether personnel are available to arrive on behalf of the railroad
that owns or operates the high hazard train route to respond to an oil spill or release or
threatened oil spill or release and if personnel are available, the contact information for  the
personnel.
(3) A contingency plan for  a high hazard train route shall be submitted by the railroad
that owns or operates the high hazard train route.
(4) A contingency plan for a high hazard train route must be renewed  at least once every
five years. An expiring approved contingency  plan shall remain in effect until the department
approves the renewed contingency plan.
(5) The department shall respond to the submission of  a contingency plan or a contin-
gency plan renewal for a high hazard train route within 90 days of the date that the  contin-
gency plan or the  contingency plan renewal is submitted, or within a longer time period that
is mutually agreed upon by the department and the railroad submitting the contingency plan
if the department and railroad agree that the longer time  period is necessary for the de-
partment to provide a response. Failure by the department to  respond to a contingency plan
or a contingency plan renewal within the  requisite time period constitutes approval of the
contingency plan or the contingency plan renewal.
(6) Failure by a railroad that owns or operates a high hazard train route to comply with
this section or to be in  compliance with a contingency plan submitted under this section does
not preclude the railroad from operating the high hazard train route.
SECTION 6.
 Notwithstanding section 5 (2) of  this 2019 Act, if operations of trains that
cause a section of rail lines to meet the definition of a high hazard  train route commence
on or before the effective date of this 2019 Act, a contingency  plan for the high hazard train
route must be submitted to the Department  of Environmental Quality no later than 12
months after the effective date of  this 2019 Act. The department may adopt a schedule for
submission of a contingency plan within the 12-month period.
SECTION 7. Section 6 of this 2019 Act is repealed on January 2, 2022.
SECTION 8. (1) A  contingency plan for a high hazard train route required under section
5 of this 2019 Act must:
(a) Identify the high hazard train route for which the contingency plan is prepared.
(b) Demonstrate the  capacity of the railroad that owns or operates the high hazard train
route, both in material resources and finances, for the cleanup of an oil spill or release.
(c) Include the following information related to specified  personnel and equipment that
are available to respond to an oil spill or release:
(A) The names, addresses, phone numbers and electronic mail addresses  for the primary
contact for the railroad that owns  or operates the high hazard train route and for the local
primary contacts for the railroad that owns or operates the high hazard train route;
(B) A list that identifies all personnel, equipment and services  available to respond to an
oil spill or release pursuant to a written contract between  the railroad that owns or operates
the high hazard train route and other entities;
(C) The contact information for personnel available to arrive on behalf of  the railroad
that owns or operates the high hazard train route within  12 hours to respond to an oil spill
or release or threatened oil spill or release;
Enrolled House Bill 2209 (HB 2209-A) Page 5
(D) A description of the responsibilities of the  personnel specified in the contingency plan
for responding to an oil spill or release;
(E) The  number, training preparedness and fitness of all dedicated, pre-positioned per-
sonnel assigned to direct and implement the contingency plan; and
(F) The amount and type of equipment and supplies available or  other approved means
to respond to an oil spill or release and a description of where the equipment  and supplies
are located.
(d) Describe how the contingency plan relates to and is coordinated with the response
plan developed by the Department of Environmental Quality  under ORS 468B.495 and
468B.500 and any relevant contingency  plan prepared by a cooperative, a port, a regional
entity, the state or  the federal government in the same area of the state covered by the plan.
(e) Describe a plan, which may be based in whole or in part on  participation in the ex-
ercises required by the plan adopted by the State Fire Marshal  under ORS 453.392, for par-
ticipating in or conducting each of the following:
(A) An annual oil spill or release notification exercise;
(B) A triennial oil spill or release response tabletop exercise;
(C) A triennial oil spill or release response functional exercise; and
(D) A triennial oil spill containment and recovery equipment deployment exercise.
(f) Include procedures and information related  to supporting the early detection of an oil
spill or release and timely notification of appropriate federal, state, local, tribal  and other
authorities about an oil spill or release in accordance with applicable state and  federal law,
including but not limited to:
(A) Procedures for the initial detection of an oil spill or release;
(B) Procedures to be  used for immediate notification of qualified individuals at the rail-
road that owns or operates the high hazard train route;
(C) Call-down lists for notification of  appropriate federal, state, local, tribal and other
authorities;
(D) Information demonstrating that the  railroad that owns or operates the high hazard
train route has ownership of or access to an emergency  response communications network
covering the entire high hazard train route and that the  emergency response communi-
cations network also provides for immediate notification and continual  emergency commu-
nications during cleanup response;
(E) Procedures specifying the circumstances under which notifications  will be made and
the time frames for making notifications; and
(F) Follow-up requirements for notifications, provided for on a 24-hour basis.
(2) The Environmental Quality Commission and  the department may not require a rail-
road that owns or operates a high hazard train route to submit, as part of  a contingency
plan, information constituting sensitive security information provided  for under 49 C.F.R.
1520.5(b)(12), (14) or (16).
(3) A contingency plan  for a high hazard train route prepared for an agency of the federal
government or an adjacent state that satisfies the requirements of this section  shall be ac-
cepted by the department as a contingency plan required under section 5 of this 2019 Act.
SECTION 9.
(1) The Department of Environmental Quality shall review  a contingency
plan for a high hazard train route submitted under section 5  of this 2019 Act and shall ap-
prove the contingency plan if the plan:
(a) Meets the requirements of section 8 of this 2019 Act; and
(b) If implemented, is capable, to  the maximum extent practicable in terms of personnel,
materials and equipment, of removing oil promptly and  properly and minimizing any damage
to the environment.
(2) A railroad that owns or operates a high  hazard train route shall notify the depart-
ment in writing promptly of any significant change affecting the contingency plan,  including
Enrolled House Bill 2209 (HB 2209-A) Page 6
changes in any factor set forth in this section. The department  may require the railroad to
update a contingency plan as a result of these changes.
(3) The contingency plan must provide for the use by  the applicant of the best technology
available at the time the contingency plan was submitted or renewed. For  purposes of this
subsection, the technology that provides the greatest degree of protection, taking  into con-
sideration processes that are currently in use anywhere in the world, shall be considered  the
best technology available. In determining what  is the best technology available, the depart-
ment shall consider the effectiveness, engineering  feasibility, technological achievability and
cost of the technology.
(4)(a) Before the department approves  a contingency plan required under section 5 of this
2019 Act, the department shall provide a  copy of the contingency plan to the State Depart-
ment of Fish and Wildlife, the office of the State  Fire Marshal and the Department of Land
Conservation and Development for review.
(b) In addition to providing copies to the agencies listed in paragraph (a) of this  sub-
section, before approving or modifying a contingency plan for a high hazard train route, the
Department of Environmental Quality  shall provide a copy of the contingency plan to each
federally recognized Indian tribe that owns land or enjoys treaty-reserved hunting,  fishing
or gathering rights that could be impacted by an oil discharge along any portion of the  high
hazard train route.
(c) The agencies and tribes that receive copies  of a contingency plan under this sub-
section shall review the contingency  plan according to procedures and time limits established
by rule of the Environmental Quality Commission.
(5) Upon approval of a contingency plan, the department shall issue to  the plan holder a
certificate stating that the contingency plan has been  approved. The certificate shall include
the name of the high hazard train route for which the certificate is issued,  the effective date
of the contingency plan and the date by  which the contingency plan must be submitted for
renewal.
(6) The approval of a contingency plan by the department  does not constitute an express
assurance regarding the adequacy of  the contingency plan or constitute a defense to liability
imposed under ORS chapters 468, 468A and 468B or any other state law.
SECTION 10.
The Environmental Quality Commission  may adopt rules as necessary for
the implementation of sections 5, 8, 9, 13 and 14 of this 2019 Act.
(Applicability of Existing Contingency Planning Provisions to High
Hazard Train Route Contingency Planning Requirements)
SECTION 11.  ORS 468B.365 is amended to read:
468B.365. (1) The Department of Environmental Quality shall approve a contingency plan  re-
quired under ORS 468B.345  only  if it determines that the plan meets the requirements of ORS
468B.345 to 468B.360 and:
(a) The covered vessel or facility demonstrates evidence of compliance with ORS 468B.390; and
(b) If implemented, the plan is capable,  to the maximum extent practicable in terms of personnel,
materials and equipment, of removing oil promptly and  properly and minimizing any damage to the
environment.
(2) An owner or operator of a covered vessel or facility shall notify the department in writing
immediately of any significant change  affecting the contingency plan, including changes in any fac-
tor set forth in this section or in rules  adopted by the Environmental Quality Commission. The de-
partment may require the owner or operator to  update a contingency plan as a result of these
changes.
(3) A holder of an approved contingency plan does not violate the terms of  the contingency plan
by furnishing to another plan holder, after notifying  the department, equipment, materials or per-
Enrolled House Bill 2209 (HB 2209-A) Page 7
sonnel to assist the other plan holder in a response to an oil  discharge. The plan holder shall re-
place or return the transferred equipment, materials and personnel as soon as feasible.
(4) The department may  attach any reasonable term or condition to its approval or modification
of a contingency plan that the department determines is necessary to insure that the applicant:
(a) Has access to  sufficient resources to protect environmentally sensitive areas and to prevent,
contain, clean up and mitigate potential oil discharges from the facility or tank vessel;
(b) Maintains personnel levels sufficient to carry out emergency operations; and
(c) Complies with the contingency plan.
(5) The contingency plan must provide  for the use by the applicant of the best technology
available at the time the contingency plan was submitted or renewed.
(6) The department may require an applicant or a holder  of an approved contingency plan to
take steps necessary to demonstrate its ability to carry out the contingency plan, including:
(a) Periodic training;
(b) Response team exercises; and
(c) Verification of access to inventories of equipment, supplies and personnel identified  as
available in the approved contingency plan.
(7) The department may consider evidence that  oil discharge prevention measures such as dou-
ble hulls or double  bottoms on vessels or barges, secondary containment systems, hydrostatic test-
ing, enhanced vessel traffic systems or enhanced  crew or staffing levels have been implemented and
in its discretion, may make exceptions to the requirements of this section  to reflect the reduced risk
of oil discharges from the facility or tank vessel for which the plan is submitted or being modified.
(8) Before the department approves or modifies a contingency plan required under ORS
468B.345, the department shall provide a copy  of the contingency plan to the State Department of
Fish and Wildlife, the office of the State Fire Marshal and  the Department of Land Conservation
and Development for review. The agencies shall review the plan according to procedures and  time
limits established by rule of the Environmental Quality Commission.
(9) Upon approval of a contingency plan, the department shall issue to the plan holder a certif-
icate stating that the plan has been approved. The certificate shall include the name of  the facility
or tank vessel for which the  certificate is issued, the effective date of the plan and the date by
which the plan must be submitted for renewal.
(10) The approval  of a contingency plan by the department does not constitute an express as-
surance regarding the adequacy of the plan or constitute a defense  to liability imposed under ORS
chapters 468, 468A and 468B or any other state law.
SECTION 12.
 ORS 468B.385 is amended to read:
468B.385. (1) Upon request of a plan holder or on the initiative of  the Department of Environ-
mental Quality, the department, after notice and opportunity for hearing, may  modify its approval
of a contingency plan  required under ORS 468B.345  if the department determines that a change
has occurred in the operation of the facility or tank vessel  necessitating an amended or supple-
mental plan, or that the operator’s discharge experience demonstrates a necessity for modification.
(2) The department, after notice and opportunity for hearing, may revoke its approval of a  con-
tingency plan if the department determines that:
(a) Approval was obtained by fraud or misrepresentation;
(b) The operator does  not have access to the quality or quantity of resources identified in the
plan;
(c) A term or condition of approval or modification has been violated; or
(d) The plan holder is not in compliance with the plan and the deficiency materially affects  the
plan holder’s response capability.
(3) Failure of a holder of an approved or modified contingency plan to comply with  the plan or
to have access to the quality or quantity of resources identified in  the plan or to respond with those
resources within the shortest possible time in the event of a spill is a violation of ORS 468B.345 to
468B.415 for purposes of ORS 466.992, 468.140, 468.943 and any other applicable law.
Enrolled House Bill 2209 (HB 2209-A) Page 8
(4) If  the holder of an approved or modified contingency plan fails to respond to and conduct
cleanup operations of an unpermitted discharge of oil with the quality and quantity of  resources
identified in the plan and in a manner required under the plan,  the holder is strictly liable, jointly
and severally, for the civil penalty assessed under ORS 466.992 and 468.140.
(5) In order to be considered in compliance with a contingency plan, the plan holder must:
(a) Establish and carry out procedures identified  in the plan as being the responsibility of the
holder of the plan;
(b) Have access to and have on hand the quantity and quality  of equipment, personnel and other
resources identified as being accessible or on hand in the plan;
(c) Fulfill the assurances espoused in the plan in the manner described in the plan;
(d) Comply with terms and conditions  attached to the plan by the department under ORS
468B.345 to 468B.380; and
(e) Successfully demonstrate the  ability to carry out the plan when required by the department
under ORS 468B.370.
FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
SECTION 13.
(1) A railroad that owns  or operates a high hazard train route shall submit
to the Department of Environmental Quality, together with a contingency plan required  un-
der section 5 of this 2019  Act, a financial responsibility statement described in subsection (2)
of this section. The railroad shall submit an  updated statement at least once every five
years, together with submission of a renewed contingency plan under section 5 (4) of  this
2019 Act.
(2) A financial responsibility statement required by this section must:
(a) Demonstrate the railroad’s ability, in the form of insurance,  reserve accounts, letters
of credit or other financial instruments or resources on which the railroad  can rely, to pay
the costs to clean up a worst case spill as calculated under  subsection (3) of this section; and
(b) Identify the capacity, measured in  barrels, of the total lading of oil transported within
the average-sized train and the largest single train that was operated on each high hazard
train route owned or operated by the railroad during the previous calendar year.
(3) For the purposes of  this section, a railroad that owns or operates a high hazard train
route shall calculate the  total costs to clean up a worst case spill based on a minimum cost
of $16,800 per barrel of oil multiplied by the number of barrels of oil that would constitute
a worst case spill on the high hazard train route.
(4) A statement prepared for an agency of the  federal government or an adjacent state
that satisfies the requirements of this section may be accepted as  a financial responsibility
statement under this section.
FEES
SECTION 13a.
(1) Subject to subsections (2)  and (3) of this section, each railroad that is
required to submit a contingency plan for a high hazard train route under section 5 of this
2019 Act shall  pay to the Department of Transportation in each year a fee equal to the
amount that the Department of Environmental Quality finds and determines to be necessary
to defray the costs of only those duties imposed on the Department of Environmental Quality
by law for which costs may be paid from the High Hazard Train Route Oil Spill Preparedness
Fund established under section 14 of this 2019 Act.
(2) In each calendar year, the percentage rate of the fee required to  be paid shall be de-
termined by orders entered by  the Department of Transportation on or after March 1 of each
year. The department shall provide notice of the order to each railroad. Each railroad shall
pay to the Department of Transportation  the fee or portion of the fee as computed pursuant
Enrolled House Bill 2209 (HB 2209-A) Page 9
to this subsection on a date, as specified in  the notice, that is at least 15 days after the date
of mailing the notice.
(3) The total of the fees payable by railroads described in subsection (1) of this section
may not exceed five hundredths of one percent  of the combined gross operating revenues
derived within this state of all railroads described in subsection (1) of this section.
(4) Payment of each fee or portion of the fee, verification of gross operating  revenues
by the railroad and any refunds of  overpayment of the fee shall be made in the manner
provided for and at  the same time as payment of the fee required under ORS 824.010 and
subject to ORS 824.012. Notwithstanding ORS 824.010 (1)  and (4), the fee provided for in this
section shall be in addition to all other fees paid or payable by railroads to  the Department
of Transportation.
(5) Fees collected under this  section shall be paid into the State Treasury and deposited
in the High Hazard Train Route Oil Spill Preparedness Fund established  under section 14 of
this 2019 Act.
SECTION 13b. As used in this section and section 13c of this 2019 Act:
(1) “Oil” has the meaning given that term in  ORS 468B.300 except that “oil” does not
mean gasoline or any other petroleum related product that has been processed  such that it
is capable of being used as a fuel for the propulsion of a motor vehicle.
(2) “Owner” means the  person who has the ultimate control over, and the right to use
or sell, oil being shipped.
(3) “Person” means an  individual, trust, firm, joint stock company, corporation, part-
nership, joint venture, consortium, association, state, municipality, commission, political
subdivision of a  state or any interstate body, any commercial entity and the federal govern-
ment or any agency of the federal government.
(4) “Tank railroad car” means a loaded or unloaded railroad car or rolling  stock desig-
nated to transport oil as part of a single train that transports:
(a) 20 or more tank railroad cars in a continuous block that are loaded with oil; or
(b) 35 or more tank railroad cars  loaded with oil that are spread throughout the entirety
of the rolling stock, not including the locomotive, that make up the train.
SECTION 13c.
(1)(a) The owner of oil at the time the oil is transported by loaded tank
railroad car in this state shall pay to the Department of  Revenue a fee not to exceed $20 for
each tank railroad car loaded with oil.
(b) If the loaded tank railroad car  enters this state from outside of this state, the fee
shall be imposed on the owner of the oil at the time the  loaded tank railroad car enters this
state.
(c) If the tank railroad car is loaded with oil in this state, the fee shall be imposed upon
the loading of the oil into or onto the tank railroad car for transport in or through this state.
(2) The Department of Environmental Quality and  the office of the State Fire Marshal
shall establish by  rule the amount of the fee required under this section as necessary to
provide funding for programs authorized to be funded by moneys  in the High Hazard Train
Route Oil Spill Preparedness Fund established under section 14 of this 2019 Act and the  Oil
and Hazardous Material Transportation by Rail Action Fund established under ORS 453.394.
(3) Any oil that the Constitution or laws of  the United States prohibit the state from
taxing is exempt from the fee imposed under this section.
(4)(a) Each owner of oil transported by loaded tank railroad  car shall remit payment of
the fee established under this section on a quarterly basis.
(b) Each owner of oil transported by loaded tank railroad car shall register with the De-
partment of Revenue at least  30 days prior to the date that the owner’s oil is transported
by loaded tank railroad car in this state.
(c) Each owner  of oil transported by loaded tank railroad car shall keep at the person’s
registered place of  business complete and accurate records of any petroleum products sold,
purchased by, or brought in or caused to be brought in to the place of business.
Enrolled House Bill 2209 (HB 2209-A) Page 10
(d) The Department of Revenue, upon oral or written reasonable notice, may make  such
examinations of the books, papers, records and equipment required to be kept  under this
subsection as it may deem necessary in carrying out this section.
(5) The Department of Revenue is authorized to establish those  rules and procedures for
the implementation and enforcement of this section that are consistent with this section’s
provisions and are considered necessary and appropriate.
(6) The provisions of ORS chapters 305 and 314 as to liens, delinquencies, claims  for re-
fund, issuance of refunds, conferences, appeals to the Oregon Tax Court,  stay of collection
pending appeal, cancellation, waiver, reduction or compromise of fees, penalties or interest,
subpoenaing and examining witnesses and books and papers, and the  issuance of warrants
and the procedures relating thereto,  shall apply to the collection of fees, penalties and in-
terest by the Department of Revenue under this section, except  where the context requires
otherwise.
(7) All moneys received by the Department of Revenue under this section  shall be de-
posited in the State Treasury and credited to a suspense  account established under ORS
293.445. After payment of administration expenses  incurred by the department in the ad-
ministration of this section and of refunds  or credits arising from erroneous overpayments,
the balance of the money shall be transferred  to the High Hazard Train Route Oil Spill
Preparedness Fund established under section 14 of this 2019 Act and to  the Oil and Hazard-
ous Material Transportation by Rail Action Fund established under ORS 453.394, in  the
proportionate amounts that  each agency found and determined to be necessary under sub-
section (2) of this section.
SECTION 13d.
(1) Sections 13a to 13c of this 2019 Act are repealed on January 2, 2027.
(2) Any moneys remaining in the  High Hazard Train Route Oil Spill Preparedness Fund
established under section  14 of this 2019 Act and the Oil and Hazardous Material Transpor-
tation by Rail Action Fund established under ORS 453.394 on the date of the repeal specified
in subsection  (1) of this section that were collected pursuant to sections 13a to 13c of this
2019 Act that are unexpended, unobligated and not  subject to any conditions shall be re-
funded to the payors without interest.
HIGH HAZARD TRAIN ROUTE OIL SPILL PREPAREDNESS FUND
SECTION 14.
(1) The High Hazard Train Route Oil Spill Preparedness Fund is established
in the State Treasury, separate  and distinct from the General Fund. Interest earned by the
High Hazard Train Route Oil Spill Preparedness Fund shall be credited to the fund.
(2) The fund shall consist of:
(a) All moneys placed in the fund as provided by law; and
(b) Any gifts, grants, donations, endowments or bequests from any  public or private
source.
(3) Moneys in the fund are continuously appropriated to the Department  of Environ-
mental Quality to be used only to pay the costs of the department incurred to:
(a) Review, under section 9 of this 2019 Act, contingency plans  for high hazard train
routes required under section 5 of this 2019 Act;
(b) Verify proof of financial responsibility required by section 13 of this 2019 Act;
(c) Develop, review and revise the portions of  the oil spill response plan required by ORS
468B.495 and 468B.500 that relate to high hazard train routes; and
(d) Participate in training, response exercises, inspections and tests in order to verify:
(A) Equipment inventories; and
(B) The abilities of the following to prevent and respond to oil spill or release emergen-
cies related to high hazard train routes and to undertake  other activities intended to main-
tain the capabilities for emergency response related to high hazard train routes:
(i) The state;
Enrolled House Bill 2209 (HB 2209-A) Page 11
(ii) Municipalities; or
(iii) Railroads that own or operate high hazard train routes.
(4) Notwithstanding any contrary provision of  subsection (3) of this section, moneys in
the High Hazard Train Route Oil  Spill Preparedness Fund may not be used to pay the costs
of the department that may be paid with moneys deposited in  the Oil Spill Prevention Fund
established under ORS 468B.410.
SECTION 15.
 ORS 468B.410 is amended to read:
468B.410. (1) The Oil Spill  Prevention Fund is established separate and distinct from the General
Fund in the State Treasury. Interest earned  on the fund shall be credited to the fund. Moneys re-
ceived by the Department of Environmental Quality for the  purpose of oil and hazardous material
spill prevention and the fees collected under  ORS 468B.405 shall be paid into the State Treasury and
credited to the fund.
(2) The State Treasurer shall invest and reinvest moneys in the Oil Spill Prevention  Fund in the
manner prescribed by law.
(3) The moneys in  the Oil Spill Prevention Fund are appropriated continuously to the Depart-
ment of Environmental Quality to be used in the manner described in subsection (4)  of this section.
(4) The Oil Spill Prevention Fund may be used by the Department of Environmental Quality  to:
(a) Pay all costs of the department incurred to:
(A) Review the contingency plans submitted under ORS 468B.360;
(B) Conduct training, response exercises, inspection and tests in order to verify equipment  in-
ventories and ability to prevent and respond  to oil release emergencies and to undertake other ac-
tivities intended to  verify or establish the preparedness of the state, a municipality or a party
required by ORS 468B.345 to 468B.415 to have an approved contingency plan to act in  accordance
with that plan; and
(C) Verify or establish proof of financial responsibility required by ORS 468B.390.
(b) Review and revise the oil spill response plan required by ORS 468B.495 and 468B.500.
(5) Notwithstanding any contrary provision of  subsection (4) of this section, moneys in
the Oil Spill Prevention Fund may not be used to pay the costs  of the department that may
be paid with moneys deposited in the High Hazard Train Route Oil Spill Preparedness Fund
established under section 14 of this 2019 Act.
INTERAGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
SECTION 16.
 ORS 468B.495 is amended to read:
468B.495. (1) The Department of Environmental Quality shall develop an integrated, interagency
response plan for oil or hazardous material spills in the Columbia River, the Willamette River up
to Willamette Falls  and the coastal waters and estuaries of the state , and along high hazard train
routes. In developing the response plan, the department shall work with  all affected local, state and
federal agencies , with railroads required to have approved contingency plans under section 5
of this 2019 Act  and with any volunteer group interested in participating in  oil or hazardous ma-
terial spill response.
(2) The plan developed under subsection (1) of this section shall be consistent to  the extent
practicable with the plan for a statewide hazardous material emergency response  system established
by the State Fire Marshal under ORS 453.374.
STATE FIRE MARSHAL PROVISIONS
SECTION 17.
 ORS 453.392 is amended to read:
453.392. (1) As part of the plan for the effective implementation of  a statewide hazardous mate-
rial emergency response system established by rule under ORS 453.374, the State Fire Marshal  shall
adopt by rule a plan for the coordinated response to oil or  hazardous material spills or releases that
occur during rail transport. The plan adopted under this subsection:
Enrolled House Bill 2209 (HB 2209-A) Page 12
(a) Shall address with a specific focus on oil or hazardous  material spills or releases that occur
during rail transport all required provisions under ORS 453.374;
(b) May include requirements and incentives for local governments and other  responders to
participate in ongoing training programs;
(c) Shall provide  a system for identifying where hazardous material response [ materials] re-
sources owned by railroads are located throughout this state  and how access to those [ materials]
resources is to be coordinated; [ and]
(d) Shall include a recurring, three-year training cycle of  statewide training exercises
that:
(A) Commences with  a triennial tabletop exercise that includes the Department of Envi-
ronmental Quality, the Department of Transportation, the Office of Emergency Management,
state and local responders, federally recognized Indian tribes in  this state and railroads that
operate in this state;
(B) Includes, in the second year  of the training cycle, a triennial statewide functional
exercise to test and evaluate response capabilities, functional groups, plans, incident com-
mand staff and  emergency operations centers in their abilities to respond to an oil or a
hazardous material spill or release that occurs during rail transport; and
(C) Includes provisions for the planning, preparation and implementation, in the  third
year of  the training cycle, of a triennial full-scale, multiagency, multijurisdictional and
multidisciplinary oil or hazardous material spill or release training exercise that:
(i) Involves training for all manner of personnel necessary for a coordinated response  to
an oil or a hazardous material spill or release;
(ii) Is  intended to examine or validate the planning, coordination and command and con-
trol decisions that may be made in the event of an oil or hazardous material spill or  release
and to also examine or validate response-specific capabilities or functions; and
(iii) Involves training that covers  the entire sequence of events that take place during
an oil or hazardous material spill or release incident that occurs during rail transport; and
[(d)] (e)  [ May] Shall include any other  information deemed necessary by the office of the State
Fire Marshal to provide coordinated response  to oil or hazardous material spills or releases that
occur during rail transport.
(2) The office  of the State Fire Marshal shall annually coordinate with local governments, other
state agencies involved in hazardous material  emergency response, other responders and represen-
tatives of the railroad industry to prepare a report on  the coordinated response plan adopted under
this section and shall:
(a) Make the report available as an appendix to the Office of Emergency Management’s  oil and
hazardous material response emergency operations plan developed pursuant to ORS 401.092; and
(b) No later than February 1 of each year, submit  the report to the Legislative Assembly in the
manner provided in ORS 192.245.
(3) The report required by subsection (2)  of this section shall include, but need not be limited
to, the following in relation to oil and hazardous material emergency response for rail transport:
(a) An inventory of  all emergency response resources available in this state, including informa-
tion on:
(A) The location of, and the means of access to, the resources;
(B) Whether the resources are publicly or privately maintained; and
(C) Additional resources that are needed to provide for adequate response;
(b) Suggested changes to the structure for  the continued coordination between state agencies
and industry;
(c) Possible revisions to the response roles or responsibilities of state agencies,  local govern-
ments and railroads; and
(d) Strategies for ensuring adequate funding at the state  and local government levels to cover
the training, equipment and administrative costs  associated with providing comprehensive response
and equipment.
Enrolled House Bill 2209 (HB 2209-A) Page 13
UNIT CAPTIONS
SECTION 18. The unit captions used in this 2019 Act are provided  only for the conven-
ience of the reader and do not become part of the statutory law of  this state or express any
legislative intent in the enactment of this 2019 Act.
Passed by House June 17, 2019
..................................................................................
Timothy G. Sekerak, Chief Clerk of House
..................................................................................
Tina Kotek, Speaker of House
Passed by Senate June 29, 2019
..................................................................................
Peter Courtney, President of Senate
Received by Governor:
........................M.,........................................................., 2019
Approved:
........................M.,........................................................., 2019
..................................................................................
Kate Brown, Governor
Filed in Office of Secretary of State:
........................M.,........................................................., 2019
..................................................................................
Bev Clarno, Secretary of State
Enrolled House Bill 2209 (HB 2209-A) Page 14