1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 1037
Sponsored by Senator THATCHER, Representative RESCHKE; Representatives  DRAZAN, GAMBA, LEVY B,
MCINTIRE
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act says that higher learning schools must give students certain income  data.
(Flesch Readability Score: 69.9).
Requires an institution of higher education  to provide specified information related to a realistic
expectation of income for an individual in a field related to the degree the student seeks to obtain.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to income information provided to students in higher education; amending ORS 348.100.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 348.100 is amended to read:
348.100. (1) As used in this section, “institution of higher education” has the meaning given  that
term in ORS 348.582.
(2) Each institution of higher education shall provide the following information  to each student
enrolled at the institution for whom the institution receives federal education loan information:
(a) An estimate of the  total amount of federal education loans the student has received at the
time the information is provided;
(b) The total cumulative amount of tuition and fees the student  has paid to the institution of
higher education at the time the information is provided;
(c) An estimate of the total potential payoff amount, or a range within which  the total payoff
amount may fall, including principal and interest,  of the federal education loans the student has
received at the time the information is provided;
(d) An estimate of the amount, including interest, that the student will have to pay  each month
to service the federal education loan amount set forth in paragraph (a)  of this subsection, including
the interest  rate and number of repayment years used by the institution of higher education to cal-
culate the monthly payment estimate pursuant to this paragraph;
(e) The percentage of the borrowing limit the student has reached for each type of  federal edu-
cation loan the student has received at the time the information is provided; [ and]
(f) A statement that the  information provided does not include  private loans or credit card
debt; and
(g) A realistic expectation of income during the 10-year  period immediately after obtain-
ing a degree for an individual who  is working in a field related to the degree the student
seeks to obtain .
(3) The institution of higher education shall provide the information required under  subsection
(2) of  this section on an annual basis. The information required to be provided under subsection (2)
of this section must:
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 3766
SB 1037
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
(a) Be provided to the student in a unified and comprehensive manner; and
(b) Be written in plain language that is easy to understand.
(4) An institution of higher  education may include additional loan information resources when
providing the information required under subsection (2) of this section.
(5) Institutions of  higher education are not liable for any representations made under this sec-
tion.
[2]