1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2405
Sponsored by Representative LEVY B; Representatives MANNIX, OWENS, SMITH G (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act would give money to the DOC for the adults in custody at some prisons in  the
eastern part of Oregon to get an education. (Flesch Readability Score: 60.0).
Appropriates moneys from the  General Fund to the Department of Corrections for distribution
to some department institutions in eastern Oregon for the purpose of providing educational pro-
grams to adults in custody.
Declares an emergency, effective July 1, 2025.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to funding education programs for adults in custody in eastern  Oregon; and declaring an
emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there is appropri-
ated to the Department of Corrections, for the biennium beginning July 1, 2025, out of the
General Fund, the amount of $_____, to be  distributed to the Snake River Correctional In-
stitution, Eastern Oregon Correctional  Institution, Powder River Correctional Facility and
Two Rivers Correction Institution for the purpose  of providing education programs to adults
in custody.
SECTION 2.
This 2025 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the  public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is  declared to exist, and this 2025 Act takes effect
July 1, 2025.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1342