1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 3207
Sponsored by Representative NGUYEN H; Representatives RUIZ, WRIGHT, Senator WEBER (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Tells ODE  to use state money to help school districts with technology for the early
warning system. (Flesch Readability Score: 65.1).
Directs the Department of Education to use moneys from the Statewide  Education Initiatives
Account to provide school districts with technology for data analysis  systems for the early warning
system.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to an early warning system for students; amending ORS 327.367.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 327.367 is amended to read:
327.367. (1) In addition to those moneys distributed through  the State School Fund, the Depart-
ment of Education  shall [ award grants ] use moneys  from the Statewide Education Initiatives Ac-
count to [ school districts to implement the early warning system described in this section that ] assist
students in graduating from high school[ .] by:
(a) Awarding grants to school districts to implement  the early warning system described
in this section; and
(b) Providing school districts with technology  for data analysis systems that assist school
districts in implementing the early warning system described in this section.
(2)(a) A system funded by a grant awarded under this  section must enable school districts, stu-
dents, students’ families, educators, school counselors and community organizations to take  neces-
sary corrective actions to assist students in graduating from high school.
(b) Corrective actions that may be taken  must be based on research on graduation rates and on
reports of individual students related to:
(A) The student’s attendance;
(B) The student’s behavior at school;
(C) The student’s academic or skill progress; and
(D) Any other factors identified by the State Board of Education by rule.
(3) The department shall assist school districts that may apply for a grant under this  section,
that have applied for a grant  under this section or that have received a grant under this section,
as appropriate, by:
(a) Providing technical assistance to school districts to ensure  that the school districts under-
stand the goals and objectives of the system;
(b) Assisting school districts in developing expertise  in assisting students in graduating from
high school and developing a culture that encourages and assists students in  graduating from high
school;
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2356
HB 3207
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
(c) Identifying meaningful predictive indicators of high school graduation;
(d) Developing local communication systems among  students, students’ families, educators and
community organizations to assist students in graduating from high school;
(e) Identifying and  developing interventions at school, at home and in the community to meet
students’ needs; and
(f) Reviewing existing policies and practices to:
(A) Expand policies and practices that encourage high school graduation; and
(B) Eliminate or modify policies and practices that may provide  a disincentive to graduate from
high school.
(4) The amount of each grant awarded under this section shall equal the  school district’s ADM
as defined in ORS 327.006 ×  $3.
(5) The State Board of Education shall adopt any rules necessary for the  administration of the
grants described in this section.
[2]