81st OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2021 Regular Session
Enrolled
House Bill 2167
Introduced and printed pursuant to House  Rule 12.00. Presession filed (at the request of Governor
Kate Brown for Office of the Governor)
CHAPTER .................................................
AN ACT
Relating to state entities; creating new provisions; and amending ORS 291.206 and 291.216.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Racial Justice Council is created within the Office of the Governor.
(2) The membership of the council consists of the Governor, as  chairperson, and no more
than 40 additional members appointed by and serving at the pleasure of  the Governor, sub-
ject to the following requirements:
(a) Each member must have a demonstrated  commitment to racial equity, social and
economic justice and diversity and inclusion;
(b) Each member must have connections  to, or experience working with, historically
underserved communities, particularly tribal communities, immigrants,  refugees and com-
munities of Black or Indigenous people or other people of color;
(c) Each member must have personal or professional experience and  knowledge in public
policy, criminal justice reform,  police accountability, economic opportunity, housing,
homelessness, health equity, behavioral health, education or research; and
(d) Appointments to the council must be made  to ensure representation of the racial,
gender and geographical diversity of Oregon.
(3) The Governor may assign one or more members to serve  as a liaison between the
council and the advocacy commissions.
(4)(a) The Governor  shall establish committees to address policies of interest to the
council. A committee may address multiple policy areas.
(b) The Governor shall appoint each council member to at  least one committee. The
Governor may appoint additional individuals who are not members of the council to serve
as voting or nonvoting members of a committee, provided that:
(A) Public officials who serve in the legislative or  judicial branch may serve only as
nonvoting members of a committee; and
(B) Members  of the Legislative Assembly may serve on a committee only if the commit-
tee includes an equal number of members from each chamber of the Legislative Assembly.
(c) Committees shall report to the council. The council shall approve  or disapprove re-
commendations of a committee.
(d) Appointments to each committee must be made to ensure representation  of the ra-
cial, gender and geographical diversity of Oregon.
Enrolled House Bill 2167 (HB 2167-A) Page 1
(5) The term of a member of the council  is two years. Members are eligible for reap-
pointment. If there is a vacancy for any cause,  the Governor shall make an appointment to
become immediately effective for the unexpired term.
(6) Members of  the council are not entitled to compensation under ORS 292.495. The
chair, in the chair’s discretion, may  reimburse members of the council as provided in ORS
292.495 for actual and  necessary travel or other expenses incurred in the performance of
their duties as members of the council.
(7) Official action by the council requires modified  consensus of the members of the
council.
(8) The council shall meet at times and places specified by the call of the chairperson.
(9) All agencies  of state government, as defined in ORS 174.111, are directed to assist the
council in the performance of  its duties and, to the extent permitted by laws relating to
confidentiality, to furnish such information and advice as the  council considers necessary to
perform its duties.
(10) At least once per year,  the council shall report to the Legislative Assembly, the
Secretary of State, the Bureau of Labor and Industries,  the State Treasurer and the Attor-
ney General. The report must  describe strategies designed to institutionalize racial justice
into the conduct of state business and may include other matters pertinent to  dismantling
systemic and institutional racism.
(11) As used in this section:
(a) “Advocacy commission” means the Commission on Asian and Pacific  Islander Affairs,
the Commission on Black Affairs and the Commission on Hispanic Affairs.
(b) “Racial justice” means systematic fair treatment of people  of all races that results
in equitable opportunities and outcomes for all people.
SECTION 2.
Notwithstanding the term length specified in section 1 (5) of this 2021 Act
for members of the Racial Justice Council, the Governor shall appoint half, rounding down,
of the members initially appointed to the council for an initial term of one year.
SECTION 3.
(1) The Racial Justice Council  shall provide advice and recommendations to
the Governor relating to racial justice, which may include:
(a) Recommending changes to state policies,  practices, budgets and structures to align
them within a racial justice and equity framework.
(b) Creating action plans to promote racial justice in areas including criminal justice,
police accountability, housing and homelessness, human services,  economic opportunity,
health equity, environmental equity and education recovery.
(c) Developing long-term  strategies to institutionalize racial justice into the conduct of
state business.
(d) Establishing and maintaining communication between community leaders  and the
Office of the Governor.
(e) Identifying areas of potential future collaboration  with the state and outside
stakeholders.
(f) Directing the collection of data from across sectors  of society to support data-driven
policy decisions.
(g) Providing principles and recommendations that center  racial justice to the Governor
to inform the Governor’s budget and tax expenditure report required under ORS 291.202.
(h) Monitoring progress on  programs and investments recommended by the council, in
cooperation with the Office  of the Governor, the official responsible for cultural change in
the Oregon Department of Administrative Services,  the Chief Data Officer appointed under
ORS 276A.353 and other agencies or officials as appropriate.
(2) The council shall advise  and assist state agencies in creating racial impact statements
for programs included in agency request budgets under ORS 291.206.
Enrolled House Bill 2167 (HB 2167-A) Page 2
(3) The council shall establish and maintain avenues of  communication with appropriate
officers and committees of the  Legislative Assembly to monitor investments in and track
progress toward racial equity.
(4) As used in this section, “racial justice” has the meaning given that  term in section
1 of this 2021 Act.
SECTION 4.  ORS 291.206 is amended to read:
291.206. (1) The Governor shall prescribe rules the Governor considers  necessary for the guid-
ance of agencies in the preparation of agency request budgets. The  Governor shall use the classi-
fications of expenditures provided in ORS  291.216 (6)(a) and shall prepare and prescribe
classifications of revenue for the purpose of budget-making and accounting.
(2) Insofar as practicable, agency  request budgets and appropriation measures shall be prepared
in a manner that reflects state governmental organization and state agency duties,  functions and
powers under the law in  effect on January 1 of the following year. The Oregon Department of Ad-
ministrative Services  shall maintain agency request budgets in the form in which they are submitted.
(3) As  supplemental information, each agency request budget shall include options for a 10 per-
cent reduction from the estimate of  the projected costs of continuing currently authorized activities
or programs for the next biennium, excluding debt service. Each state agency  shall describe the 10
percent reduction in terms of the activities or programs that  the agency will not undertake. The
activities or programs must be ranked in order of importance and priority on the basis of lowest cost
for benefit obtained.
(4) As supplemental information, each agency request  budget shall include a racial im-
pact statement,  which must be developed in consultation with the Racial Justice Council. The
racial impact statement must describe the impact of programs, policies and budget  modifi-
cations on Oregonians who are Black, Indigenous or other people of color.
SECTION 5.
 ORS 291.216 is amended to read:
291.216. (1) The Governor’s budget shall include a budget  message prepared by the Governor,
including recommendations of the Governor with reference to the fiscal policy of  the state govern-
ment for the coming  biennium, describing the important features of the budget, embracing a general
budget summary setting forth the aggregate figures of the budget  so as to show a balanced relation
between the total proposed expenditures and the  total anticipated income, with the basis and factors
on which the estimates are made, the amount to be borrowed, and other means of financing  the es-
timated expenditures for the ensuing biennium, compared with the corresponding figures for at  least
the last completed biennium and the current biennium.
(2) The Governor’s budget  shall be supported by explanatory schedules or statements, classifying
the expenditures reported  in the budget, both past and proposed, by organization units, objects and
funds, and the income by organization units,  sources and funds, and the proposed amount of new
borrowing as well as proposed new tax or  revenue sources, including a single comprehensive list
of all proposed increases in fees, licenses and assessments assumed in the budget.
(3) The  Governor’s budget shall be submitted for all dedicated funds, as well as the state Gen-
eral Fund, and shall include the estimated amounts of federal and other aids or grants to state
agencies or activities  provided for any purpose whatever, together with estimated expenditures
therefrom.
(4) The Governor’s budget shall  embrace the detailed estimates of expenditures and revenues.
It shall include:
(a) Statements of the  bonded indebtedness of the state government, showing the actual amount
of the debt service for at least the past biennium, and the estimated amount  for the current
biennium and the ensuing  biennium, the debt authorized and unissued, the condition of the sinking
funds and the borrowing capacity.
(b) The Governor’s recommendations concerning tax expenditures identified under ORS 291.214.
(c) Any statements relative to the financial plan which the Governor may consider desirable  or
which may be required by the Legislative Assembly.
Enrolled House Bill 2167 (HB 2167-A) Page 3
(5) The Governor’s  budget shall use the estimated revenues under ORS 291.342 for the fiscal
year in which the budget is submitted as the  basis for total anticipated income under subsection (1)
of this section, subject  to adjustment as may be necessary to reflect accurately projections for the
next biennium.
(6)(a) The Governor’s budget shall present  information regarding the expenses of the state in the
following categories:
(A) Personnel expenses, including  compensation and benefits for state employees, but excluding
costs of services contracted out and temporary service costs.
(B) Supplies, equipment and the costs of services contracted out.
(C) Special payments.
(D) Capital construction.
(E) Capital outlay.
(F) Debt service.
(b) For each category described in paragraph (a)  of this subsection, the budget shall show actual
expenditures for the prior biennium and estimated expenditures for the current biennium.
(c) As supplemental information to  the budget, the Governor shall include an estimate of the
projected  costs  of continuing currently authorized programs in the next biennium. The estimate shall
include, but is not limited to the projected costs of:
(A) Removing one-time expenditures;
(B) Program phase-ins and phase-outs;
(C) Personnel expenses compared  to existing compensation plan agreements, including position
vacancy experience calculations;
(D) Inflation for services, supplies and medical costs;
(E) Transfers between state funds or accounts;
(F) Mandated caseload changes; and
(G) Debt service for previously issued debt.
(d) The budget shall show the  total increase in the cost of salaries and benefits for all state
positions.
(7) The Governor’s budget shall include:
(a) The total number of positions and full-time equivalent positions included in the budget.
(b) The average vacancy rate in the present biennium.
(c) The number  of permanent, full-time equivalent vacancies as of July 1 of even-numbered years.
(8) The Governor’s budget shall  include computations showing budget figures as a percentage
of the total General Fund, federal fund, fee or other source category, as may be appropriate.
(9) The Governor’s budget shall include, in  a format that provides side-by-side comparison with
the State Debt Policy Advisory Commission report of net debt capacity, a six-year  forecast, by debt
type and repayment source, of:
(a) That  portion of the capital construction program required to be reported by ORS 291.224 that
will be financed by debt issuance.
(b) The acquisition of equipment or technology in excess  of $500,000 that will be financed by
debt issuance.
(c) Other state agency debt issuance for grant or loan purposes.
(10) The Governor’s budget shall include the outcomes-based budgeting  information required by
ORS 291.217 (2) and (3).
(11) The Governor’s  budget shall include recommendations regarding available funds that could
be used to make lump sum payments  to the Public Employees Retirement System under ORS 238.229.
(12) The Governor’s budget shall include a narrative summarizing  the racial impact
statements required under ORS 291.206.
Enrolled House Bill 2167 (HB 2167-A) Page 4
Passed by House June 16, 2021
..................................................................................
Timothy G. Sekerak, Chief Clerk of House
..................................................................................
Tina Kotek, Speaker of House
Passed by Senate June 22, 2021
..................................................................................
Peter Courtney, President of Senate
Received by Governor:
........................M.,........................................................., 2021
Approved:
........................M.,........................................................., 2021
..................................................................................
Kate Brown, Governor
Filed in Office of Secretary of State:
........................M.,........................................................., 2021
..................................................................................
Shemia Fagan, Secretary of State
Enrolled House Bill 2167 (HB 2167-A) Page 5