1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2024 Regular Session
Senate Bill 1546
Printed pursuant to  Senate Interim Rule 213.28 by order of the President of the Senate in conformance with pre-
session filing rules,  indicating neither advocacy nor opposition on the part of the President (at the request
of Joint Legislative Committee on Information Management and Technology)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Makes the State Chief Information Officer contract with  a third party for a study of how
the state uses information and technology and  advise on how to improve. Tells the officer to submit
a report by a certain date. The Act takes effect on its passage. (Flesch Readability Score: 62.5).
Requires the State Chief Information  Officer to contract for an independent assessment of the
information technology environment within the  executive department, to include recommendations
for improving performance, operations and resources.
Directs the officer to submit a report on the results of the assessment  and recommendations to
the Governor and the Joint  Legislative Committee on Information Management and Technology and
any other appropriate legislative committee no later than February 1, 2025.
Declares an emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to information technology; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) As used in this section, “executive department” has the  meaning given
that term in ORS 174.112.
(2) The State Chief  Information Officer shall contract with a third party to conduct an
independent assessment of the information technology  environment within the executive
department.
(3) The assessment shall:
(a) Examine the current:
(A) Information technology governance programs used  within the executive department;
and
(B) Organizational and operational  environments that are affecting performance, oper-
ations and resources within the executive department;
(b) Identify and describe alternative information  technology governance programs and
organizational and operational models for consideration to be  used by or within the executive
department;
(c) Recommend  an information technology governance program and organizational and
operational models that may be adopted and used by or within the executive department  to
improve performance, operations and resources;
(d) Conduct a gap analysis  to compare the current information technology environment
with the recommended information technology environment; and
(e) Provide a plan to implement the recommendations, including estimated costs and time
frames.
(4) The assessment must be completed no later than September 30, 2024.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 136
SB 1546
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
(5) The State Chief Information Officer shall submit a  report in the manner provided by
ORS 192.245, and may include recommendations for legislation, to the Governor and to the
Joint Legislative Committee on Information Management  and Technology and any other ap-
propriate legislative committee no later than February  1, 2025. The report submitted under
this subsection shall provide the results of the  assessment and include a budget request to
carry out the plan to implement the recommendations.
SECTION 2.
Section 1 of this 2024 Act is repealed on July 1, 2025.
SECTION 3. This 2024 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist,  and this 2024 Act takes effect
on its passage.
[2]