1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2023 Regular Session
House Bill 3222
Sponsored by Representative OWENS, Senator FINDLEY; Representatives ANDERSEN, HELM
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Appropriates moneys from General Fund to Oregon  Department of Administrative Services for
distribution to High Desert Partnership for specified purposes.
Declares emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to water in Harney County; and declaring an emergency.
Whereas Harney County is widely recognized for the county’s collaborative strategies to  bring
together a broad array  of interests, including farmers and ranchers, conservation groups, agencies,
the communities of Burns and Hines and the Burns-Paiute Tribe, to solve challenging environmental
issues and advance solutions that support the environment and the rural economy  and quality of life
in Harney County; and
Whereas the collaborative strategies have been in place for more than a decade and have proven
durable and effective; and
Whereas the High Desert Partnership was formed in  2005 to address some of the most chal-
lenging issues  in Harney County, including restoring forests and wetlands, mitigating wildfire and
creating opportunities for youth through collaborative strategies; and
Whereas more than a  decade of research and projects have been implemented to improve habitat
floodplain and wetland conditions on the Silvies Floodplain and in the  Malheur National Wildlife
Refuge; and
Whereas the Harney Basin Wetlands Collaborative has established trust  and relationships
among diverse stakeholders and has a strategic action plan ready to  be implemented for the benefit
of the people, environment and economy of Harney County; now, therefore,
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there  is appropri-
ated to the Oregon Department of Administrative Services,  for the biennium beginning July
1, 2023, out of the General Fund, the amount  of $2,000,000, for distribution to the High Desert
Partnership:
(1) To design and implement projects for restoring or maintaining wet  meadow, wetland
and lake conditions for  birds, farmers and ranchers on the Silvies River Floodplain, on the
Donner und Blitzen River Floodplain, at Malheur Lake  and in the Malheur National Wildlife
Refuge;
(2) For research and public engagement  related to the projects described in subsection
(1) of this section; and
(3) To support collaborative  partnerships related to the projects described in subsection
(1) of this section.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 763
HB 3222
1
2
3
4
SECTION 2.
This 2023 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the  public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is  declared to exist, and this 2023 Act takes effect
on its passage.
[2]