1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2023 Regular Session
House Bill 2534
Introduced and  printed pursuant to House Rule 12.00. Presession filed (at the request of House Interim Committee
on Environment and Natural Resources for Representative Ken Helm)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced.
Requires State Department of Energy to work with stakeholders to identify areas  of inquiry
regarding energy and energy use in this state, develop research options and convene advisory  group
to develop recommendations and benchmarks around energy and energy use in this state.
Directs department to produce report with final set of recommendations  and submit report to
Governor and appropriate interim  committees of Legislative Assembly no later than September 15,
2024.
Takes effect 91st day following adjournment sine die.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to the use of energy in this state; and prescribing an effective date.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The State Department of Energy shall:
(a) Work and consult  with stakeholders to identify areas of inquiry regarding energy and
energy use in this state that, if  researched and analyzed, could provide important and useful
information, data or datasets as a resource for the Legislative Assembly or Governor. The
stakeholders must represent a diverse range of interests, expertise and  education,
socioeconomic communities and geographic areas of the state;
(b) Develop research options using the areas of inquiry identified  under paragraph (a) of
this subsection and in consultation with federal and  state agencies that oversee or have ex-
pertise in the areas of inquiry identified under paragraph (a) of this subsection; and
(c) Convene an advisory group to develop a set of recommendations and  benchmarks
around energy and energy use in this  state using the research options developed under par-
agraph (b) of this subsection.
(2)(a) The department shall produce a report that consolidates a final set of recommen-
dations around energy and energy use in this state. The report must include:
(A) A final  set of recommendations and background information regarding the work and
decision-making that led to the final set of recommendations;
(B) The areas of inquiry  identified under subsection (1)(a) of this section and background
information regarding the work that led to the areas of inquiry;
(C) The research options developed under subsection (1)(b) of this section and background
information regarding the work that led to the research options; and
(D) The set of recommendations and benchmarks developed by the advisory group  under
subsection (1)(c) of this section and background information regarding the work that led to
the set of recommendations.
(b) The department shall submit the report produced  under paragraph (a) of this sub-
section to the Governor and  the appropriate interim committees of the Legislative Assembly
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 3044
HB 2534
1
2
3
4
5
in the manner provided under ORS 192.245 no later than September 15, 2024.
SECTION 2.
Section 1 of this 2023 Act is repealed on January 2, 2025.
SECTION 3. This 2023 Act takes effect on the 91st day after the date on  which the 2023
regular session of the Eighty-second Legislative Assembly adjourns sine die.
[2]