1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
80th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2019 Regular Session
Senate Bill 645
Sponsored by Senator BOQUIST
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Restricts use of certain moneys deposited in State Wildlife Fund.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to uses of State Wildlife Fund moneys; amending ORS 496.300.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 496.300 is amended to read:
496.300. (1) The State  Wildlife Fund is established in the State Treasury separate and distinct
from the General Fund. Except as otherwise provided  by law, all moneys received by the State Fish
and Wildlife Commission pursuant to the wildlife laws, except such as may be required as a revolv-
ing fund for payroll and emergency expenses, shall  be paid into the State Treasury and credited to
the fund. All moneys in the fund are  appropriated continuously to the commission to carry out the
wildlife laws. Interest earnings on all moneys in the fund shall be retained in the fund.
(2)(a) The commission shall keep  a record of all moneys deposited in the State Wildlife Fund.
The record  shall indicate by separate cumulative accounts the source from which the moneys are
derived and the individual activity or program against which each withdrawal is charged.
(b) Except as  otherwise provided in ORS 496.303, moneys received by the commission and
deposited in the State Wildlife Fund pursuant to the issuance of licenses, tags or permits for
angling, taking, hunting or trapping activities  may be used by the commission only to carry
out those activities or programs  that directly support or benefit the angling, taking, hunting
or trapping activities for which the moneys were received.
[(b)] (c)  Using the record created pursuant to paragraph (a) of this subsection, the commission
shall report, in the  budget documents submitted to the Legislative Assembly, on the application of
investment and interest earnings to the maintenance of fish hatcheries and other  State Department
of Fish and Wildlife facilities.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2287