1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2024 Regular Session
Senate Concurrent Resolution 202
Sponsored by Senator WAGNER (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Fixes firm dates for measures during session. (Flesch Readability Score: 66.7).
Establishes deadlines for completion  of legislative measures for the 2024 regular session of the
Eighty-Second Legislative Assembly.
CONCURRENT RESOLUTION
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
(1) This resolution constitutes a rule  of proceeding of the Senate and the House of Represen-
tatives of the Eighty-second Legislative Assembly.
(2) The Senate and the  House of Representatives shall adhere to the following schedule and
deadlines for the 2024 regular session of the Eighty-second Legislative Assembly:
(a) The Senate and the House of Representatives shall convene in regular  session on February
5, 2024.
(b) Committee chairpersons shall schedule work sessions for measures  in the chamber of origin
no later than February 12, 2024. This paragraph does not apply  to the Joint Committee on Ways
and Means, other joint committees, Senate Committee on Finance and Revenue, House Committee
on Revenue, Senate Committee on Rules, House Committee on  Rules, Senate Committee on Conduct
and House Committee on Conduct.
(c) Committees  shall consider measures in the chamber of origin no later than February 19, 2024.
This paragraph does not apply to the Joint Committee on Ways and Means, other  joint committees,
Senate Committee on Finance and Revenue,  House Committee on Revenue, Senate Committee on
Rules, House  Committee on Rules, Senate Committee on Conduct and House Committee on Conduct.
(d) Committee chairpersons shall  schedule work sessions for measures in the second chamber
no later than February 23, 2024. This paragraph does not apply  to the Joint Committee on Ways
and Means, other joint committees  except for the Joint Committee on Transportation, Senate Com-
mittee on Finance and Revenue, House Committee on Revenue, Senate Committee on  Rules, House
Committee on Rules, Senate Committee on Conduct and House Committee on Conduct.
(e) Committees shall consider measures in the second chamber no later than February 29,  2024.
This paragraph does not apply to the Joint Committee on  Ways and Means, other joint committees
except for the Joint Committee on Transportation, Senate Committee  on Finance and Revenue,
House Committee on Revenue, Senate Committee on Rules, House Committee on Rules,  Senate
Committee on Conduct and House Committee on Conduct.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 62