1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 3260
Sponsored by Representative EVANS
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act  tells ODEM to give grants to make facilities more resilient. (Flesch Readability
Score:  67.7).
Directs the Oregon Department of Emergency Management to develop and maintain a grant
program to harden community facilities against man-made and natural disasters.
Establishes the Community Facility Hardening Fund.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to a grant program to improve the resiliency of community facilities.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) As used in this section:
(a) “Community facility” means a facility owned or operated by an eligible applicant.
(b) “Eligible applicant” means:
(A) A county; or
(B) A private organization qualified  for federal tax-exempt status under section 501(c)(3)
of the Internal Revenue Code.
(c) “Hardening” includes  repairing, replacing or upgrading the structural components of
a facility or carrying out other activities for the purpose of making facilities  more resilient
to wildfire, extreme weather, flooding, earthquake or other man-made or natural disasters.
(2) The Oregon Department of Emergency Management shall develop and administer a
program to provide grants  to eligible applicants for hardening community facilities against
man-made or natural disasters.
(3) Eligible applicants shall submit grant applications to the department in the  form and
manner prescribed by the department. The department shall rank applications  based on the
criteria established under subsection (4) of this section and award  grants based on rankings
and available funds. If the department denies a grant application,  the department shall pro-
vide the reason for the denial to the eligible applicant in writing.
(4)(a) The department shall  establish by rule criteria for ranking grant applications under
the grant program. Criteria shall include, but need not be limited to:
(A) The level of need for  the requested hardening activities, as demonstrated by the eli-
gible applicant;
(B) The types of man-made or  natural disasters likely to be experienced in the region
where the community facility is located;
(C) Whether the community facility will be, or is likely to  be, used for providing or sup-
porting emergency services; and
(D) Whether the applicant has an alternative means of funding the hardening activities.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 3441
HB 3260
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
(b) The department shall adopt rules to implement  the grant program. Rules adopted
under this paragraph shall include, but need not be limited to:
(A) Policies and procedures for the grant application process;
(B) Terms and conditions of grant agreements entered  into by the department and grant
recipients; and
(C) Procedures for verifying that grant funds have been used for the purposes  for which
they were awarded.
SECTION 2.
The Community Facility Hardening Fund is  established in the State Treas-
ury, separate and  distinct from the General Fund. Interest earned by the Community Facility
Hardening Fund shall be credited to the fund.  Moneys in the fund are continuously appro-
priated to the Oregon Department of Emergency Management for the purpose of  carrying
out section 1 of this 2025 Act.
[2]