1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 229
Sponsored by Senators  MANNING JR, MEEK; Senators FREDERICK, GOLDEN, PATTERSON, PROZANSKI,
TAYLOR, Representative GAMBA (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act tells  OHCS to give funds to Bridge Meadows to grow its multigenerational
housing model in this state. (Flesch Readability Score: 62.8).
Directs the Housing and  Community Services Department to distribute funds to Bridge Meadows
for specified purposes. Directs the department to oversee the use  of funds. Directs the department
to report to the interim committees of  the Legislative Assembly related to housing annually for five
consecutive  years.
Sunsets January 2, 2031.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to housing for vulnerable populations.
Whereas the Bridge Meadows model of  multigenerational housing successfully integrates seniors
and foster youth, promoting mutual support and community connection; and
Whereas youth  aging out of the foster care system face significant challenges, including
homelessness and a lack of stable support systems; and
Whereas seniors often seek companionship and purpose in their later years, making this
intergenerational model beneficial for both populations; and
Whereas the Legislative Assembly is committed to  supporting the most vulnerable members of
our society and fostering  a stronger, more compassionate community through innovative housing
solutions; and
Whereas expanding Bridge Meadows will provide safe housing and a support network for vul-
nerable groups within our communities; now, therefore,
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Housing and Community Services Department shall  distribute funds
to Bridge Meadows to be used for the following purposes:
(a) Expansion of the Bridge Meadows model  of multigenerational housing across this
state;
(b) Development and construction of new housing units;
(c) Operational needs and other support of existing and new housing communities;
(d) Establishment of programs to enhance  intergenerational activities and engagement
among residents; and
(e) Administrative  costs directly related to the expansion and operation of the Bridge
Meadows model of multigenerational housing.
(2) The department shall oversee the use of funds distributed under subsection (1) of this
section and ensure  that the funds are used only for the purposes specified in subsection (1)
of this section.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2162
SB 229
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
(3) Not later than December 31  of each year for five consecutive years, the department
shall submit a report, in the manner  provided in ORS 192.245, on the progress and impact
of the distribution of funds made under subsection (1) of this section to the interim com-
mittees of the Legislative Assembly related to housing.
SECTION 2.
Section 1 of this 2025 Act is repealed on January 2, 2031.
SECTION 3. There is appropriated to the Housing and Community Services Department,
for the biennium beginning July 1, 2025, out of the General Fund, the amount of  $1,000,000
for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of section 1 of this 2025 Act.
[2]