1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2016
Sponsored by Representative NOSSE (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act says the OBLPCT has to get rid of information on its website  and other public
sources about people who get in trouble with the board  three or five years later. (Flesch Readability
Score: 63.3).
Requires the Oregon Board of Licensed Professional Counselors and Therapists  to establish a
schedule of violations and remove from the board’s website and publicly  accessible publications in-
formation related to a licensee’s or associate’s violations after a specified time.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to  discipline imposed by the Oregon Board of Licensed Professional Counselors and Ther-
apists.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
Section 2 of this  2025 Act is added to and made a part of ORS 675.715 to
675.835.
SECTION 2. (1) The Oregon Board of Licensed Professional  Counselors and Therapists
shall establish by rule a schedule of the violations described in ORS 675.745 according to the
penalties imposed for each type of violation.
(2)(a) The board shall remove from the website  operated by or on behalf of the board, and
any publicly accessible print and electronic publications under  the board’s control, all infor-
mation related to the discipline of a licensee or associate as follows:
(A) Three years after the  date on which the licensee or associate satisfied the board’s
order, if the discipline imposed  did not include license suspension or revocation and the vio-
lation is scheduled as a lesser or similar violation, as determined by the board; and
(B) Five years after the date on which the licensee or  associate satisfied the board’s or-
der, if the discipline imposed included license suspension and the  violation is scheduled as a
greater or similar violation, as determined by the board.
(b) The board may not remove from the website or publications described  in this sub-
section information related to the discipline of a licensee  or associate if the discipline in-
cluded permanent denial of a license.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1124