1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
81st OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2021 Regular Session
House Bill 2595
Sponsored by Representative WILLIAMS; Representative REARDON (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Requires Department of Human Services to conduct staffing and workload analysis and update
it before developing biennial  budgets and whenever department implements policies or procedures
affecting workloads of local office staff.
Takes effect on 91st day following adjournment sine die.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to workloads of Department of Human Services staff; and prescribing an effective date.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Department  of Human Services shall conduct an analysis, and update
the analysis prior to developing a budget each biennium, of:
(a) Recommended workloads for  staff who are responsible for administering the medical
assistance program, including long term care services and supports, for seniors and  persons
with disabilities;
(b) Current workloads  for staff who are responsible for administering the medical as-
sistance program, including long  term care services and supports, for seniors and persons
with disabilities;
(c) Any additional staffing needed to administer the  medical assistance program, includ-
ing long term care services and supports, for seniors and  persons with disabilities while
maintaining recommended workloads.
(2) Whenever the department conducts or updates the analysis  described in subsection
(1) of this section,  the department shall report to the Legislative Assembly, in the manner
provided in ORS 192.245, and make available to the public the following information:
(a) The department’s current staffing levels compared to the recommended staffing levels
for:
(A) Eligibility workers;
(B) Case managers; and
(C) Adult protective services workers; and
(b) Estimated costs to increase staffing  levels sufficient to achieve recommended work-
loads if implemented incrementally.
(3) The department shall  update the analysis under subsection (1) of this section, and
report the updated analysis to the  Legislative Assembly and the public as provided in sub-
section (2) of  this section, whenever the department implements new policies or procedures
that have a direct impact  on the workloads of staff in the local offices who are responsible
for administering the medical assistance program, including  long term care services and
supports, for seniors and persons with disabilities. The analysis  and report must include any
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1860
HB 2595
1
2
3
4
5
additional staff needed to implement the policies  or procedures, any proposed reductions in
staff and the impact overall on the workloads of existing or new staff.
SECTION 2.
This 2021 Act takes effect on the 91st day after the date on  which the 2021
regular session of the Eighty-first Legislative Assembly adjourns sine die.
[2]