1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 720
Sponsored by Senators GORSEK, MANNING JR,  Representative RUIZ; Representative ISADORE (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act provides money to DAS to distribute to POIC to construct a  workforce center.
(Flesch Readability Score: 67.5).
Appropriates moneys to the Oregon  Department of Administrative Services for distribution to
the Portland Opportunities Industrialization Center to construct and operate the  Sunrise Campus
Cultural Workforce Center.
Declares an emergency, effective July 1, 2025.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to funding for a cultural workforce center; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there  is appropri-
ated to the Oregon Department of Administrative Services,  for the biennium beginning July
1, 2025, out of the General Fund, the amount of $5,000,000, for distribution to the Portland
Opportunities Industrialization Center for construction and operation of the Sunrise Campus
Cultural Workforce Center that will serve as  a hub for preapprenticeship and apprenticeship
programs that provide marginalized youth with skills training in construction and  semicon-
ductor manufacturing.
SECTION 2. This 2025 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist,  and this 2025 Act takes effect
July 1, 2025.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1956