1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 3318
Sponsored by Representative EVANS
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: This Act allows the EQC to adopt enhanced civil penalties for cargo tank  vehicles that
break some laws. (Flesch Readability Score: 61.6).
Authorizes the Environmental Quality Commission to adopt by rule a schedule of  enhanced civil
penalties for violations of certain environmental laws involving cargo tank motor vehicles.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to civil penalties for violation of environmental laws.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
Section 2 of this 2025 Act is added to and made a part of ORS chapter 468.
SECTION 2. (1) As used in this section, “cargo  tank motor vehicle” means a motor ve-
hicle with one or more cargo tanks permanently attached to or forming an integral part  of
the motor vehicle.
(2) The Environmental Quality Commission  may, to the extent authorized by federal law,
adopt by rule a schedule establishing enhanced civil penalty amounts that may be  assessed,
in addition to the amount prescribed by the schedule  adopted under ORS 468.130, for a vio-
lation described in ORS 468.140 that involves a cargo tank motor vehicle.
(3) In imposing a penalty pursuant to a schedule authorized  by this section, the com-
mission shall  consider the construction of the cargo tank motor vehicle and reduce the
amount of the penalty if  the construction of the cargo tank motor vehicle exceeds specifi-
cations for the construction of cargo tank motor vehicles required under federal law.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2054