1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2723
Sponsored by Representative EVANS (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act tells ODHS to require certain health care facilities to  have backup power
sources. (Flesch Readability Score: 67.5).
Requires the Department of Human Services to  adopt rules requiring licensed long term care
facilities, outpatient renal dialysis facilities and residential facilities  to acquire and maintain backup
power sources to be used during power outages.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to backup power sources.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
The Department of Human  Services, in collaboration with the Oregon Health
Authority, shall adopt by rule requirements for  a long term care facility and an outpatient
renal dialysis facility, licensed under ORS 441.020, to acquire and maintain a backup power
source that  the facility may use on a temporary basis during a power outage for the purpose
of operating dialysis units and other  equipment and appliances, including refrigeration and
portable heating and cooling devices necessary to preserve medications and supplies, that are
critical to the care or immediate safety of  residents and patients. The backup power source
need not be installed or integrated into a facility’s infrastructure.
SECTION 2. The Department of Human Services shall adopt by  rule requirements for a
residential facility, licensed under ORS 443.415, to acquire and maintain a backup  power
source that  the facility may use on a temporary basis during a power outage for the purpose
of operating equipment and appliances,  including refrigeration and portable heating and
cooling devices necessary to preserve medications and  supplies, that are critical to the care
or immediate safety  of residents. The backup power source need not be installed or inte-
grated into a facility’s infrastructure.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2692