83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Enrolled
Senate Concurrent Resolution 12
Sponsored by Senator NASH, Representative LEVY B (Presession filed.)
Whereas Robin A. Church was born on September 29, 1954, in La Grande, Oregon; and
Whereas the seed of Robin A. Church’s future interest  in public service was planted on No-
vember 7, 1972, when she voted in the first United States presidential election open  to 18-year-olds;
and
Whereas Robin A. Church began her service to the people  of the State of Oregon when she
joined the Union County Sheriff’s Office in 1987; and
Whereas in 1991, Robin A. Church left the Union County Sheriff’s Office and joined  the Union
County Clerk’s Office, where she served as Chief Deputy and Deputy Clerk; and
Whereas Robin A. Church was appointed Union County Clerk in  2007, filling the unexpired term
of outgoing clerk Nellie Bogue-Hibbert; and
Whereas Robin A. Church was first elected Union County Clerk in 2009, and would  ultimately
hold the position for more than 16 years; and
Whereas Robin A. Church served as the president of the Oregon Association of  County Clerks
in 2019; and
Whereas Robin A. Church was an  early advocate for mail-in voting and an instrumental force
behind Union  County’s transition to mail-in elections after Oregonians voted in 1998 to expand
mail-in voting to primary and general elections; and
Whereas Robin A. Church helped count more  than 750,000 ballots during her tenure as Union
County Clerk; and
Whereas Robin A. Church retired as Union County Clerk in January  2023, leaving behind a
legacy of efficiency and integrity; and
Whereas Robin A.  Church was awarded the National Association of Secretaries of State
Medallion  Award  in 2024 by Oregon Secretary of State LaVonne Griffin-Valade, acknowledging her
unflappable dedication to democracy and further cementing her critical  importance to the history
of elections in Oregon; now, therefore,
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
That we, the members of the  Eighty-third Legislative Assembly, recognize and honor Robin A.
Church for her outstanding service to the people of the State of Oregon.
Enrolled Senate Concurrent Resolution 12 (SCR 12-INTRO) Page 1
Adopted by Senate March 4, 2025
Obadiah Rutledge, Secretary of Senate
Rob Wagner, President of Senate
Adopted by House May 19, 2025
Julie Fahey, Speaker of House
Enrolled Senate Concurrent Resolution 12 (SCR 12-INTRO) Page 2