1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 3100
Sponsored by Representative  NGUYEN D; Representatives MCLAIN, PHAM H, Senators JAMA, MEEK, WOODS
(Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The  Act would give lottery funds to Business Oregon to craft a trade strategy for this
state. (Flesch Readability Score: 65.1).
Allocates lottery funds to the  Oregon Business Development Department to develop a unified
trade strategy for Oregon in collaboration with the Port of Portland, the  Oregon Tourism Commis-
sion, the State Department of Agriculture and other stakeholders.
Declares an emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to a unified trade strategy for Oregon; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) There is allocated for the  biennium beginning July 1, 2025, from the Ad-
ministrative Services Economic Development Fund, to the  Oregon Business Development
Department, the amount of $3,200,000 for the purposes set forth  in subsection (2) of this
section.
(2) The  Oregon Business Development Department, in collaboration with the Port of
Portland, the Oregon Tourism Commission, the  State Department of Agriculture and other
stakeholders selected by the  Oregon Business Development Department, shall develop a
unified trade strategy for Oregon, including, but not limited to:
(a) Hiring consultants to represent Oregon in foreign markets;
(b) Supporting outbound and inbound trade missions for government and businesses;
(c) Expanding the promotion of Oregon exports and foreign  direct investment in Oregon;
and
(d) Providing technical assistance to Oregon businesses impacted by foreign tariffs.
SECTION 2.
This 2025 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the  public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is  declared to exist, and this 2025 Act takes effect
on its passage.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2243