1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
80th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2019 Regular Session
House Bill 2642
Sponsored by Representative REARDON, Senators DEMBROW,  OLSEN; Representatives ALONSO LEON, BOLES,
BYNUM, DOHERTY, EVANS, GOMBERG, GORSEK, LEIF, MEEK, NOSSE, PILUSO,  SALINAS, SPRENGER,
WILSON, Senators HANSELL, HASS (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced.
Appropriates moneys from General Fund to Higher Education Coordinating Commission for dis-
tribution to community colleges and community college service districts for various purposes.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to state financial administration.
Whereas community  colleges are critical providers of career and technical education, workforce
training and short-term certificates; and
Whereas community colleges serve as a bridge between  high schools and a four-year degree; and
Whereas community colleges provide GED programs and are major partners in offering
college-level courses to high school students; and
Whereas community colleges serve the most underrepresented  and first-generation students of
any sector of Oregon post-secondary education; and
Whereas declining state support of community  colleges has resulted in cuts to services to stu-
dents even as they shoulder more of the cost burden through higher tuition; and
Whereas community  colleges educate and train the skilled workforce that local businesses and
job seekers need to thrive; now, therefore,
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
There is appropriated to the Higher Education  Coordinating Commission, for
the biennium beginning July 1, 2019, out of the General Fund,  the amount of $647 million for
deposit into the  Community College Support Fund established under ORS 341.620 for distrib-
ution to community colleges and community college service districts.
SECTION 2. There is appropriated to the Higher Education  Coordinating Commission, for
the biennium beginning July 1, 2019, out  of the General Fund, the amount of $70 million for
distribution to community colleges and community  college service districts for expenditures
intended to  increase the number of graduates from post-secondary career and technical ed-
ucation programs.
SECTION 3. There is appropriated to the Higher Education  Coordinating Commission, for
the biennium beginning July 1, 2019, out of the General Fund,  the amount of $70 million for
distribution to community colleges and community  college service districts for expenditures
related to:
(1) Programs related to student success; and
(2) Programs related to retention of first-generation college students  and students from
underrepresented minority populations.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2460
HB 2642
1
[2]