1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
79th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2017 Regular Session
Senate Joint Resolution 15
Sponsored by Senator HANSELL, Representative BARRETO (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Proposes amendment to Oregon Constitution  to require bills declaring emergency to receive at
least two-thirds majority vote in each House of Legislative Assembly for passage.  Provides ex-
ceptions for certain budget bills and bills enacted during periods of catastrophic  disaster proclaimed
by Governor under Article X-A of Oregon Constitution.
Refers proposed amendment to people for their approval or rejection at next  regular general
election.
JOINT RESOLUTION
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
PARAGRAPH 1.  Section 28, Article IV  of the Constitution of the State of Oregon, is amended
to read:
Sec. 28. (1) No act shall take effect, until ninety days from the end of the  session at which the
same shall have been passed, except in case of emergency; which  emergency shall be declared in the
preamble, or in the body of the law.
(2)(a) Two-thirds of the members of  each House shall be necessary to pass a bill declaring
an emergency.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this subsection does not apply to:
(A) Bills passed after the Governor has invoked  the provisions of Article X-A of this
Constitution and before Article X-A of this Constitution ceases to be operative;
(B) Bills that reduce appropriations  in order to balance the state budget during a revenue
shortfall and that do not undertake any other action; or
(C) Bills passed during an odd-numbered year regular session of  the Legislative Assembly
that set forth  appropriations and expenditure limitations for the current and ordinary ex-
penses of state government, including the kindergarten through 12th grade  public school
system, and that do not undertake any other action. For purposes of this subparagraph:
(i) A bill that authorizes capital expenditure projects for which bonds or other debt in-
struments are to be issued, the repayment of which is to occur over a period of more than
two years, may  not be considered a bill setting forth an appropriation or expenditure limi-
tation; and
(ii) “Current and ordinary expenses” do not include:
(I) Expenditures for activities or programs  of agencies, institutions, organizations, poli-
tical subdivisions or other persons that were not funded in the prior biennial budget; or
(II) Biennial budget item increases  that exceed the prior biennium’s corresponding
budget item amount by 12 percent or more.
PARAGRAPH 2.
The amendment proposed by this resolution shall be submitted to the
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1879
SJR 15
1
2
3
people for their approval or rejection at the next  regular general election held throughout
this state.
[2]