1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2336
Introduced and printed pursuant to  House Rule 12.00. Presession filed (at the request of Governor Tina Kotek for
Oregon Department of Administrative Services)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act modifies the time for audits by state agencies and reporting on audits by DAS.
(Flesch Readability Score: 63.6).
Modifies the timing of internal audits performed by state  agencies and reporting on internal
audits by the Oregon Department of Administrative Services.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to internal audits; amending ORS 184.360.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 184.360 is amended to read:
184.360. (1) As used in this section:
(a) “Executive department” has the meaning given that term in ORS 174.112.
(b) “State government” has the meaning given that term in ORS 174.111.
(2) It is the policy of this state that internal  audit activities within state government be coor-
dinated to promote effectiveness.
(3) The Oregon Department of Administrative Services shall adopt  rules setting standards and
policies for internal audit functions within state government. The  rules shall include, but are not
limited to:
(a) Standards for  internal audits that are consistent with and incorporate commonly recognized
industry standards and practices; and
(b) Policies and procedures that ensure the integrity of the internal audit process.
(4) Each agency of the executive department  required to have an internal audit function shall
produce a risk assessment of the entire  agency that conforms to audit standards established by na-
tionally recognized entities such as the United States Government Accountability Office or  the In-
stitute of Internal Auditors. The agency shall use its risk assessment  as the basis for the selection
and performance of at least one internal audit [ per calendar year ] every 12 months .
(5) Each agency of the executive department  required to have an internal audit function shall
audit a component of its governance and  risk management processes at least once every five years
and file a report with the Oregon Department of Administrative Services.
(6) [Not later than December 31 of each calendar year ] Annually, the Oregon Department of  Ad-
ministrative Services shall prepare a report describing internal audit activities  that [ have] occurred
in state government [ during the calendar year in which the report  is prepared ] in the fiscal year
preceding the date of the report . The department shall submit the report to the Joint  Legislative
Audit Committee. In the absence of  the Joint Legislative Audit Committee, the department shall
submit the report to the Joint  Committee on Ways and Means, the Joint Interim Committee on Ways
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 278
HB 2336
1
2
3
and Means, the Emergency Board or another committee of the Legislative Assembly designated  by
the President of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives to receive the report.
[2]