1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Joint Resolution 17
Sponsored by Senator FREDERICK (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The measure amends a section of the Constitution to make it  clear that the state may
start a public bank. (Flesch Readability Score: 72.3).
Proposes an amendment to the Oregon Constitution to specify that a section  restricting certain
banks does not prohibit the establishment of a bank owned or operated by the State of Oregon.
Refers the proposed amendment to the people for their approval or rejection at the next regular
general election.
JOINT RESOLUTION
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
PARAGRAPH 1.
 Section 1, Article XI of the Constitution  of the State of Oregon, is amended
to read:
Sec. 1. (1) The Legislative Assembly shall  not have the power to establish, or incorporate any
bank or banking company, or monied institution whatever;  nor shall any bank company, or instition
exist in the State, with the privilege of making, issuing, or putting in circulation, any bill, check,
certificate, prommisory note, or other paper, or the paper of  any bank company, or person, to cir-
culate as money.[ -]
(2) Nothing in  this section prohibits the establishment in this state of a bank that is
owned or operated by the State of Oregon.
PARAGRAPH 2.
The amendment proposed by this resolution shall be submitted to the
people for their approval or rejection at the next  regular general election held throughout
this state.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 3469