1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2037
Sponsored by Representatives WRIGHT, MCINTIRE, LEVY  B, BOICE, OWENS, RESCHKE; Representatives
OSBORNE, YUNKER, Senator THATCHER (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act  tells certain entities to designate sports by sex. The Act forbids males from
playing in female sports. (Flesch Readability Score: 72.35).
Requires each athletic  association, conference or organization with authority over
intercollegiate sports, post-secondary institution of education  and school district to designate ath-
letic competitions and extracurricular sports according to biological  sex. Prohibits biological males
from participating in athletic competitions or  extracurricular sports designated for biological fe-
males.
Requires academic entities to designate bathrooms  and locker rooms for exclusive use by either
persons of the male biological sex or  persons of the female biological sex. Except as provided under
written policies for  coaches, trainers and other authorized persons, prohibits persons of the male
biological sex from entering or using  bathrooms or locker rooms designated for use by, or in use
by, persons of the female biological  sex and prohibits persons of the female biological sex from en-
tering or using bathrooms or locker rooms  designated for use by, or in use by, persons of the male
biological sex.
Provides causes of action for students, post-secondary institutions  of education and school dis-
tricts.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to participation in athletics according to biological sex.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) For purposes of this section:
(a) “Academic entity” means:
(A) A post-secondary institution of education, as that term is defined in ORS 702.200; or
(B) A school district.
(b) “Athletic entity” means:
(A) An  athletic association, conference or organization with authority over
intercollegiate sports;
(B) A post-secondary institution of education, as that term is defined in ORS 702.200; or
(C) A school district.
(c) “Biological sex” means male or female, as appropriate, and as stated on:
(A) The student’s birth certificate; or
(B) If the student’s birth certificate is unavailable, any government-issued record that
states the student’s biological sex.
(2)(a) For purposes of subsection (1)(c) of this section, a statement of the student’s bi-
ological sex on the  student’s birth certificate or other government-issued record must have
been:
(A) Recorded at or near the time of the student’s birth; and
(B) If modified, modified only to correct a scrivener or clerical error.
(b) If a student’s biological  sex is under dispute, the student shall establish the student’s
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 133
HB 2037
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
biological sex by presenting a signed statement of a physician that indicates  the student’s
biological sex based solely on:
(A) The student’s internal and external reproductive anatomy;
(B) The student’s normal endogenously produced levels of testosterone; and
(C) An analysis of the student’s genetic makeup.
(3) Each athletic entity shall require that every athletic competition and extracurricular
sport be expressly designated by the biological sex of the students who participate  in the
competition or sport as follows:
(a) “Males,” “Men” or “Boys”;
(b) “Females,” “Women” or “Girls”; or
(c) “Coed.”
(4) Students of the  biologically male sex may not participate in any athletic competition
or extracurricular sport that is designated as “Females,” “Women”  or “Girls” under sub-
section (3) of this section.
(5) Subsection (4) of this section does not restrict or prohibit any  student from partic-
ipating in any  athletic competition or extracurricular sport that is designated as “Males,”
“Men,” “Boys” or “Coed.”
(6)(a) A school district shall designate each bathroom and locker room within the  school
district’s facilities as available for exclusive use by persons of  either the male biological sex
or the female biological sex.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this subsection, a school district may not allow:
(A) A person of the male biological sex to enter or use a bathroom or locker room  des-
ignated for use by, or in use by, persons of the female biological sex; or
(B) A person of the female biological sex to enter or use a bathroom or locker room
designated for use by, or in use by, persons of the male biological sex.
(c) A school district by written policy may specify circumstances under which a  coach,
trainer or other authorized person may enter a locker room designated  for use by, or in use
by, persons who are not of the same biological sex as the coach, trainer  or other authorized
person. The school district may allow the coach, trainer  or other authorized person to enter
the locker room only in accordance with the school district’s written policy.
(7) A public body, as defined in ORS 174.109, any licensing  or accrediting organization or
any voluntary  organization that administers intercollegiate or interscholastic activities or
that facilitates the scheduling and programming of intercollegiate or interscholastic  activ-
ities may not entertain a complaint, open an investigation or  take any other adverse action
against an academic entity  for maintaining separate athletic competitions or extracurricular
sports in accordance with subsection (4) of this section.
(8) Any student who is deprived of an opportunity  or suffers a direct or indirect harm
as a result of an academic entity knowingly violating subsection (4) of this section  may bring
a claim against the academic entity for  injunctive relief, damages and any other relief
available under law.
(9) Any student who is subject to retaliation or any other adverse  action by an athletic
entity as a result of reporting a violation  of subsection (4) of this section to an employee of
the athletic entity, or to any public body with oversight of  the athletic entity in this state,
may bring  a claim against the athletic entity for injunctive relief, damages and any other
relief available under law.
[2]
HB 2037
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
(10) Any academic entity that suffers a direct or indirect harm as a result of a  violation
of subsection (7) of this section may bring a  claim against the public body, licensing or ac-
crediting organization or voluntary organization  for injunctive relief, damages and any other
relief available under law.
(11) Any civil action brought under this section must  be initiated not more than two
years after the alleged  direct or indirect harm or the retaliation or other adverse action
occurred. A student, post-secondary institution of education or school district that prevails
on a claim brought under this  section is entitled to monetary damages, including damages
for any psychological, emotional or physical harm  suffered, attorney fees and costs and any
other appropriate relief.
SECTION 2.
This 2025 Act first applies to the 2027-2028 academic year.
[3]