1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2455
Sponsored by Representative ELMER (at the request of Don and Judy Leidy) (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: This Act allows an owner of a home on lands zoned for farm or forest  use to operate a
business in the home. (Flesch Readability Score: 73.1).
Allows home occupations on lands  zoned for resource use to be operated by a property owner
who is not a resident of the property.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to home occupations on lands zoned for resource uses; amending ORS 215.448.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 215.448 is amended to read:
215.448. (1) The governing body of a county or its designate may allow, subject to  the approval
of the governing body or its designate, the establishment of a home occupation and the parking of
vehicles in any zone. However, in an exclusive farm use  zone, forest zone or a mixed farm and forest
zone that allows residential uses, the following standards apply to the home occupation:
(a) It [ shall] must be operated by a resident or [ employee of a resident ] owner of the property
on which the business is located  or by an employee of a resident or owner ;
(b) It shall employ on the site no more than five full-time or part-time persons;
(c) It shall be operated substantially in:
(A) The dwelling; or
(B) Other  buildings normally associated with uses permitted in the zone in which the property
is located; and
(d) It shall not unreasonably interfere with other uses permitted in the zone in which  the prop-
erty is located.
(2) The governing body of the county or its designate may establish additional reasonable  con-
ditions of approval for the establishment of a home occupation under subsection (1) of this section.
(3) Nothing in this section authorizes the governing body or its designate  to permit construction
of any structure that would not  otherwise be allowed in the zone in which the home occupation is
to be established.
(4) The existence of home occupations  [shall] may not be used as justification for a zone change.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 3958