1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
80th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2019 Regular Session
House Joint Resolution 19
Sponsored by Representative HELT; Representatives HERNANDEZ, MEEK, RESCHKE, STARK, ZIKA
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Proposes  amendment  to Oregon Constitution to require Legislative Assembly, in each odd-
numbered year regular  session, to appropriate moneys to fund public education before passing any
other budget measure.
Refers proposed amendment to people for their approval or rejection at next  regular general
election.
JOINT RESOLUTION
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
PARAGRAPH 1.  The Constitution of the State of Oregon is amended by creating a new  section
34 to be added to and made a part of Article IV, such section to read:
SECTION 34. (1) In each regular session in an odd-numbered year, the Legislative As-
sembly must pass measures appropriating moneys sufficient  to pay for adequate public edu-
cation, during the biennium  beginning July 1 of the year in which the session is held, for
students in kindergarten through grade 12 before the Legislative Assembly  may pass any
other budget measure.
(2) As used in this section,  “budget measure” means a measure that appropriates moneys
or imposes a limitation on expenditures of continuously appropriated moneys  and that is
prohibited from containing provisions on other subjects  under section 7, Article IX of this
Constitution.
PARAGRAPH 2. The amendment proposed by this resolution shall be submitted to  the
people for their approval or rejection  at the next regular general election held throughout
this state.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 3625