1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2716
Sponsored by Representative EVANS (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act tells ODOT to tell car dealers if ODOT finds missing or incomplete papers  or
fees when  the dealer tries to register or title a car. ODOT must also give the dealer a chance to fix
the problem. The  Act also tells ODOT to study how long it takes to process the papers and fees from
car dealers. By September 15, 2027,  the department must share the study results and ideas for im-
provement with the ODAC. (Flesch Readability Score: 63.1).
Directs the Department of Transportation to notify vehicle  dealers when the department dis-
covers documentation, information or fees the vehicle dealer submitted to  register or title a vehicle
are missing, incomplete  or miscalculated. Directs the department to take certain actions to allow a
vehicle dealer to rectify the missing documentation, information or fees.
Directs the department to  undertake a study to assess delays in processing documentation and
fees submitted by vehicle dealers. Provides that the department report the  results of the study and
recommendations to the Oregon Dealer Advisory Committee no later than September 15, 2027.
Takes effect on the 91st day following adjournment sine die.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to vehicle dealers; and prescribing an effective date.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
Section 2 of this 2025 Act is added to and made a part of the Oregon Vehicle
Code.
SECTION 2. (1) As used in this section, “business day” means any day other than a
Saturday, a Sunday or a legal holiday described in ORS 187.010.
(2) If a  vehicle dealer submits fees or documentation for registering and titling a vehicle,
the Department of Transportation shall review the fees and  documentation to determine
whether all necessary fees, documentation  and information are included. If the documenta-
tion is missing or incomplete  or a fee is miscalculated, the department shall notify the ve-
hicle dealer by telephone or in writing of the missing documentation, incomplete information
or miscalculated fee within  two business days after making the determination and allow the
vehicle dealer to submit the missing documentation, incomplete  information or outstanding
fees.
(3) The  department shall establish a staffed vehicle dealer telephone number dedicated
to assisting vehicle dealers responding to notices of missing documentation,  incomplete in-
formation or miscalculated fees. The telephone  line shall be operational during normal
working hours of the  department. The department shall accept payments for miscalculated
fees by credit card or  debit card and by different methods, including but not limited to tele-
phone, check, online or prepayment to an account accessible by the department  for this
purpose.
(4) The department may add a fee to the amount of any payment made  by credit card or
debit card in an amount reasonably calculated to offset the impact to the department of fi-
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2812
HB 2716
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
nancial institution fees related to the transactions.
(5) If the department notifies  the purchaser or lienholder that the department deter-
mined that a vehicle dealer  is missing documentation, submitted incomplete information or
miscalculated the  fees and the department later discovers that the department committed
an error, in addition  to notifying the vehicle dealer, the department shall notify in writing
the purchaser or lienholder of the department’s error.
(6) The department shall  by rule allow a vehicle dealer to elect to establish an account
from which to make payments to the department for any monetary  transaction between the
vehicle dealer and the department.
(7) The provisions of  this section apply to vehicle dealers who are authorized to act as
agents of the department under ORS 802.031.
SECTION 3.
(1) To assess delays in processing documentation and  fees submitted by ve-
hicle dealers related to missing documentation, incomplete information or miscalculated fees,
the Department of Transportation shall conduct a study  and keep track of the following for
at least one calendar year:
(a) The causes of delays, including determining the causes that are the most and  the
least common;
(b) The number of delays related to payment of an incorrect fee;
(c) If there is a fee discrepancy, the average amount of the discrepancy;
(d) Whether  a small number of vehicle dealers are responsible for a high number of de-
lays; and
(e) Delays by  employees of the department who incorrectly assert missing documenta-
tion, incomplete information or miscalculated fees, in order  to determine the types of delays
that are caused by the department’s error.
(2) The department shall submit  a report, and may include recommendations for legis-
lation, to  the advisory committee on vehicle dealer regulation established in ORS 802.370,
otherwise known as the Oregon Dealer Advisory Committee, no later  than September 15,
2027.
SECTION 4.
Section 3 of this 2025 Act is repealed January 2, 2028.
SECTION 5. This 2025 Act takes effect on the 91st day after the date on  which the 2025
regular session of the Eighty-third Legislative Assembly adjourns sine die.
[2]