1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 3619
Sponsored by Representative EVANS
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act says that a child custody order must be made in  writing in a short time. The
Act says that a court may  not name a parenting coordinator unless the parents agree and talk about
the cost. The Act says that when a domestic relations or  custody matter is remanded, the first judge
may not hear the further proceedings. (Flesch Readability Score: 66.6).
Provides that a court that issues an order for  the custody of a child must issue the order in
writing within five days after the ruling.
Provides that a court may  not appoint a parenting coordinator unless both parents agree after
a discussion of costs.
Provides that when a  domestic relations or custody matter is remanded to a circuit court, the
judge who presided over the initial proceedings may not preside over the further proceedings.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to domestic relations.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
A court that issues an order for  the custody of a child must issue the order
in writing within five days after the ruling on which the order is based.
SECTION 2. Notwithstanding ORS 107.425 (3), a court may  not appoint an individual,
panel or program to assist the court in creating a parenting plan or resolving disputes re-
garding parenting time, or to assist parents in creating and implementing  parenting plans,
unless both parents agree to the  appointment after a discussion of the costs of the services
and the parents’ responsibility for the costs.
SECTION 3.
If a party appeals an order  or judgment in a domestic relations suit, as de-
fined in ORS  107.510, or an order for the custody of a child and the appellate court remands
the matter to the circuit court for further  proceedings, the judge who presided over the in-
itial proceedings may not preside over the further proceedings.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 4234