1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2575
Sponsored by Representative MCINTIRE (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Allows a parent to have  choices for other schooling if a student fails to read by the end
of the third grade. (Flesch Readability Score: 80.6).
Provides  a  parent with alternative educational choices if a student fails to achieve reading
proficiency by the end of the third grade.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to educational alternatives for children attending public schools who fail to achieve reading
proficiency by the end of the third grade.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) As used in this section, “fails to achieve reading  proficiency” means re-
ceiving a score in the bottom 20th percentile of all students in the  state, based on a standard
reading test administered statewide for the third grade.
(2) If a student fails to achieve  reading proficiency by the end of the third grade, a parent
of the student may choose to receive:
(a) An amount that is 80 percent of the amount that may  be attributable to the student
based on the school district’s General Purpose Grant  per ADMw, as calculated under ORS
327.013 and taking  into consideration any weights specifically attributable to the student,
which the parent may use to pay for tuition at a private school of the parent’s choice;
(b) An amount that is 10  percent of the amount that may be attributable to the student
based on the school district’s General Purpose  Grant per ADMw, as calculated under ORS
327.013 and taking into consideration any weights specifically attributable to  the student,
which the parent may use to pay for the services of a private tutor of the parent’s choice
until the student achieves reading proficiency; or
(c) Authorization for the student to attend another school  in the school district, includ-
ing a public charter school, if space is available at the school.
(3) The school district shall ensure that the parents of the students of the school district
receive notification of the options described in subsection (2) of this section at  least annually
and in a language and format accessible to the parents.
(4) The State Board of Education shall  adopt by rule limitations related to the length of
time for which a parent may receive an amount under subsection (2)(a) of this section  or
receive authorization under subsection (2)(c) of this section.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 3580