83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Enrolled
House Bill 2930
Introduced and printed pursuant to House  Rule 12.00. Presession filed (at the request of Governor
Tina Kotek for Oregon Government Ethics Commission)
CHAPTER .................................................
AN ACT
Relating to conflict of interest requirements; amending ORS 184.612, 244.020 and 293.708.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 244.020 is amended to read:
244.020. As used in this chapter, unless the context requires otherwise:
(1) “Actual conflict of interest” means any action or any decision or recommendation  by a per-
son acting in a capacity as a public official, the effect of which would be to the  private pecuniary
benefit or detriment of the person or [ the person’s ] a relative or member of the household  of the
person, or  any business with which the person or a relative or member of the household  of the
person is associated , unless the pecuniary  benefit or detriment arises out of circumstances described
in subsection (13) of this section.
(2) “Business” means any corporation, partnership, proprietorship, firm, enterprise, franchise,
association, organization, self-employed  individual and any other legal entity operated for economic
gain but excluding any income-producing not-for-profit corporation that is tax exempt  under section
501(c) of the Internal  Revenue Code with which a public official or a relative or member of the
household of the public official is associated only  as a member or board director or in a
nonremunerative capacity.
(3) “Business with which the person is associated” means:
(a) Any private business or closely held corporation of which the person or [ the person’s ] a rel-
ative or member of the household of the person  is a  director, officer, owner or employee, or
agent or any private business or closely held corporation  in which the person or [ the person’s ] a
relative or member of the household of the person  owns or  has owned stock, another form of
equity interest,  stock options or debt instruments worth $1,000 or more at any point in the preceding
calendar year;
(b) Any publicly held corporation in which the person or [ the person’s ] a relative or member
of the household of the person  owns  or has owned $100,000 or more in stock or another form of
equity interest, stock options or debt instruments at any point in the preceding calendar year;
(c) Any publicly held corporation of which the person or [ the person’s ] a relative or member
of the household of the person  is a director or officer; or
(d) For public officials required to file a statement  of economic interest under ORS 244.050, any
business listed as a source of income as required under ORS 244.060 (3).
(4) “Candidate” means an individual  for whom a declaration of candidacy, nominating petition
or certificate of nomination to public office has been filed or whose  name is printed on a ballot or
Enrolled House Bill 2930 (HB 2930-INTRO) Page 1
is expected to be or has been presented, with the individual’s consent, for nomination  or election
to public office.
(5) “Development commission” means any  entity that has the authority to purchase, develop,
improve or lease land or the authority to operate or direct the use  of land. This authority must be
more than ministerial.
(6) “First Partner” means the spouse  or domestic partner of the Governor, or an individual who
primarily has a personal relationship with the Governor as determined by the Oregon  Government
Ethics Commission by rule.  “First Partner” encompasses any alternative title that the Governor may
publicly substitute for “First Partner,” including, but  not limited to, “First Lady,” “First Husband”
or “First Spouse.”
(7)(a) “Gift” means something of economic value given to a public official, a candidate or a rel-
ative or member of the household of the public official or candidate:
(A) Without  valuable consideration of equivalent value, including the full or partial forgiveness
of indebtedness, which is not  extended to others who are not public officials or candidates or the
relatives or members of the household of public officials or candidates  on the same terms and con-
ditions; or
(B) For valuable consideration less than that required from others who are not public officials
or candidates.
(b) “Gift” does not mean:
(A) Contributions as defined in ORS 260.005.
(B) Gifts from relatives or members of the household of the public official or candidate.
(C) An unsolicited  token or award of appreciation in the form of a plaque, trophy, desk item,
wall memento or similar item, with a resale value reasonably expected to be less than $25.
(D) Informational or program material, publications  or subscriptions related to the recipient’s
performance of official duties.
(E) Admission provided to or the cost of food or beverage consumed by a public official,  a rel-
ative of the public official accompanying the public official, a member of the household of  the public
official accompanying the public official or a  staff member of the public official accompanying the
public official, at a reception, meal or meeting held by an organization when the  public official re-
presents state government as defined in ORS 174.111, a local government  as defined in ORS 174.116
or a special government body as defined in ORS 174.117.
(F) Reasonable expenses paid by any  unit of the federal government, a state or local govern-
ment, a Native American tribe that is recognized by federal  law or formally acknowledged by a
state, a membership organization to which a public body as  defined in ORS 174.109 pays membership
dues or  a not-for-profit corporation that is tax exempt under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Re-
venue Code, for attendance at a  convention, fact-finding mission or trip, conference or other meeting
if the public official is scheduled to deliver a speech, make a presentation, participate on  a panel
or represent state government as defined in ORS 174.111,  a local government as defined in ORS
174.116 or a special government body as defined in ORS 174.117.
(G) Contributions  made to a legal expense trust fund established under ORS 244.209 for the
benefit of the public official.
(H) Reasonable food, travel or  lodging expenses provided to a public official, a relative of the
public official accompanying the public official, a member of the household of  the public official
accompanying the public official or a staff member of  the public official accompanying the public
official, when the public official is representing state government  as defined in ORS 174.111, a local
government as defined in ORS 174.116 or a special government body as defined in ORS 174.117:
(i) On an officially sanctioned trade-promotion or fact-finding mission; or
(ii) In  officially designated negotiations, or economic development activities, where receipt of
the expenses is approved in advance.
(I) Food or beverage consumed by a public official acting in an official capacity:
(i) In association with the review, approval, execution of documents or closing of a borrowing,
investment or other financial transaction, including  any business agreement between state govern-
Enrolled House Bill 2930 (HB 2930-INTRO) Page 2
ment as defined in ORS 174.111, a local government as defined in ORS  174.116 or a special govern-
ment body as defined in ORS 174.117 and a private entity  or public body as defined in ORS 174.109;
(ii) While  engaged in due diligence research or presentations by the office of the State Treasurer
related to an existing or proposed investment or borrowing; or
(iii) While engaged in a meeting of an  advisory, governance or policy-making body of a corpo-
ration, partnership or other entity in which the office of the State Treasurer has invested moneys.
(J) Waiver or discount of registration expenses or materials provided  to a public official or
candidate  at  a continuing education event that the public official or candidate may attend to satisfy
a professional licensing requirement.
(K) Expenses provided by one public official to another public official for  travel inside this state
to or from an event that bears a relationship to  the receiving public official’s office and at which
the official participates in an official capacity.
(L) Food or beverage consumed by a  public official or candidate at a reception where the food
or beverage is provided as an incidental part  of the reception and no cost is placed on the food or
beverage.
(M) Entertainment provided to  a public official or candidate or a relative or member of the
household of the public official or candidate that is incidental to the main purpose of another  event.
(N) Entertainment provided  to a public official or a relative or member of the household of the
public official where the public official is acting in an official capacity while representing  state
government as defined in ORS 174.111, a local government as defined  in ORS 174.116 or a special
government body as defined in ORS 174.117 for a ceremonial purpose.
(O) Anything of economic value offered to or solicited or received by a public official  or candi-
date, or a relative or member of the household of the public official or candidate:
(i) As part of the usual and customary practice of the person’s  private business, or the person’s
employment or  position as a volunteer with a private business, corporation, partnership,
proprietorship, firm, enterprise,  franchise, association, organization, not-for-profit corporation or
other legal entity operated for economic value; and
(ii) That bears no relationship to the public official’s or candidate’s holding of, or candidacy for,
the official position or public office.
(P) Reasonable expenses paid to a public  school employee for accompanying students on an ed-
ucational trip.
(8) “Honorarium” means a payment or something of economic value  given to a public official in
exchange for services upon which custom or propriety prevents the setting of a  price. Services in-
clude, but are not limited to, speeches or other services rendered in connection with an event.
(9) “Income” means income of any nature derived from any source, including, but not limited to,
any salary, wage, advance, payment, dividend, interest, rent, honorarium,  return of capital,
forgiveness of indebtedness, or anything of economic value.
(10) “Legislative or administrative interest” means an economic interest, distinct from  that of
the general public, in:
(a) Any matter subject to the decision or vote of the public official acting in the public  official’s
capacity as a public official; or
(b) Any matter that would be subject to the decision or vote  of the candidate who, if elected,
would be acting in the capacity of a public official.
(11) “Member of the household” means any person who resides with the public  official or can-
didate.
(12) “Planning commission” means a county planning commission created under ORS chapter 215
or a city planning commission created under ORS chapter 227.
(13) “Potential conflict of interest” means any  action or any decision or recommendation by a
person acting in a capacity as a public official, the effect of which could  be to the private pecuniary
benefit or detriment of the person or [ the person’s ] a relative  or member of the household of  the
person, or a business with  which the person or the [ person’s] relative or member of the household
of the person  is associated, unless the pecuniary benefit or detriment arises out of the following:
Enrolled House Bill 2930 (HB 2930-INTRO) Page 3
(a) An interest or membership in a particular  business, industry, occupation or other class re-
quired by law as a prerequisite to the holding by the person of the office or position.
(b) Any action in the person’s official capacity which would affect to  the same degree a class
consisting of all inhabitants of the state, or a smaller class consisting of  an industry, occupation or
other group including one of which or in which the person[ , or the person’s ] or a  relative or mem-
ber of the household of the person, or a  business with which the person or the [ person’s] relative
or member of the household of the person  is associated, is a member or is engaged.
(c) Membership in or membership on the board of directors of a nonprofit corporation that  is
tax-exempt under section 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code.
(14) “Public office” has the meaning given that term in ORS 260.005.
(15) “Public official” means the First Partner and any  person who, when an alleged violation
of this chapter  occurs, is serving the State of Oregon or any of its political subdivisions or any other
public body as defined in ORS 174.109 as an elected official, appointed official,  employee or agent,
irrespective of whether the person is compensated for the services.
(16) “Relative” means:
(a) The spouse, parent, stepparent, child, sibling, stepsibling, son-in-law or daughter-in-law  of the
public official or candidate;
(b) The parent, stepparent, child, sibling, stepsibling,  son-in-law or daughter-in-law of the spouse
of the public official or candidate;
(c) Any individual for whom the public official or candidate has a legal support obligation;
(d) Any individual for whom the public official provides benefits  arising from the public official’s
public employment or from whom the public official receives benefits arising from  that individual’s
employment; or
(e) Any individual from whom the candidate receives benefits arising from  that individual’s em-
ployment.
(17) “Statement of economic interest” means  a statement as described by ORS 244.060 or
244.070.
(18) “Zoning commission” means an entity to which is delegated  at least some of the discre-
tionary authority of a planning commission  or governing body relating to zoning and land use mat-
ters.
SECTION 2.
 ORS 184.612 is amended to read:
184.612. (1) There is established the Oregon Transportation Commission consisting  of five mem-
bers appointed by the Governor, subject to confirmation  by the Senate pursuant to Article III, sec-
tion 4, of the Oregon Constitution. A member serves at the pleasure of the Governor.
(2) The  Governor shall appoint members of the commission in compliance with all of the fol-
lowing:
(a) Members shall be appointed with  consideration of the different geographic regions of the
state with one member being a resident of the area east of the Cascade Range.
(b) Not more than three members who belong to one political party. Party affiliation  shall be
determined by the appropriate entry on official election registration cards.
(3) At  the time of appointment, a member or a relative or member of the household  of a
member, as those terms are  defined  in ORS 244.020, may not have an actual conflict of interest,
as defined in ORS 244.020.
(4) Notwithstanding ORS 244.120 (2),  when met with a potential or actual conflict of interest,
as those terms are defined in ORS 244.020, a member shall announce  publicly the nature of the po-
tential or actual conflict and:
(a) Except as provided in  paragraph (b) of this subsection, refrain from participating as a public
official  in  any discussion or debate on the issue out of which the potential or actual conflict arises
or from voting on the issue.
(b) If the member’s vote is necessary to meet a requirement  of a minimum number of votes to
take official action, be eligible to vote, but not to participate as a public official  in any discussion
or debate on the issue out of which the potential or actual conflict arises.
Enrolled House Bill 2930 (HB 2930-INTRO) Page 4
(5) The term of office of each member is four years. Before the expiration of the term of a
member, the Governor shall appoint a successor whose term begins on July 1 next  following. A
member is eligible for reappointment. In  case of a vacancy for any cause, the Governor shall appoint
a person to fill the office for the unexpired term.
(6) The Governor shall appoint one of  the members as chairperson. The chairperson shall ap-
point one of the other members as vice  chairperson. The chairperson and vice chairperson shall
have such terms, duties and powers as the Oregon Transportation Commission  determines are nec-
essary for the performance of such offices.
(7) A majority of the members of the commission constitutes a quorum. If a quorum  is present
at a meeting, the commission  may take action by an affirmative vote by a majority of the members
who are  present. An individual member may not exercise individually any administrative authority
with respect to the Department of Transportation.
(8) The commission shall meet at least quarterly, at a time and place determined by the  com-
mission. The commission shall also meet at such other times and places as are specified  by the call
of the chairperson or of a majority of the commission.
(9) A vacancy does not impair the right of the remaining members to exercise all  the powers
of the commission, except that three members of  the commission must agree in the selection, vaca-
tion or abandonment of state highways, and in case the members are unable to agree the  Governor
shall have the right to vote as a member of the commission.
(10) The commission shall keep complete and accurate records of all the meetings,  transactions
and business of the commission at the office of the department.
(11) The commission may provide an official seal.
(12) The commission may hire staff the  commission deems necessary to assist the commission in
carrying out its duties. The staff shall be considered employees of the department for  purposes of
the State Personnel Relations Law under ORS chapter 240.
(13) A member of the commission is entitled to compensation and expenses as provided by  ORS
292.495.
SECTION 3.
 ORS 293.708 is amended to read:
293.708. (1) As used in this section:
(a) “Business” has the meaning given that term in ORS 244.020.
(b) “Business with which the person is  associated” has the meaning given that term in ORS
244.020.
(c) “Member of the household” has the meaning given that term in ORS 244.020.
[(c)] (d) “Relative” has the meaning given that term in ORS 244.020.
(2) When a person who is a member of the Oregon Investment Council becomes  aware that
action on a matter pending before  the council might lead to private pecuniary benefit or detriment
to the person, to a relative or member of the household  of the person or to a  business with which
the person or a relative or member of the household  of the  person is associated, the member shall
notify in  writing the State Treasurer or the Deputy State Treasurer that any action, decision or
recommendation by the member might  constitute an actual or potential conflict of interest. The
member shall provide the notice not later than three business  days after the member becomes aware
of the possibility of an actual or potential conflict.
(3) Subsection (2) of this section does not apply if the pecuniary benefit or detriment arises  out
of circumstances described in ORS 244.020 (13).
(4) Complaints  of violations of this section may be made to the Oregon Government Ethics
Commission for review and investigation  as provided by ORS 244.260 and for possible imposition of
civil penalties as provided by ORS 244.350 or 244.360.
(5) Nothing in this section excuses a member of the council from compliance with ORS  244.120.
Enrolled House Bill 2930 (HB 2930-INTRO) Page 5
Passed by House April 14, 2025
..................................................................................
Timothy G. Sekerak, Chief Clerk of House
..................................................................................
Julie Fahey, Speaker of House
Passed by Senate June 11, 2025
..................................................................................
Rob Wagner, President of Senate
Received by Governor:
........................M.,........................................................., 2025
Approved:
........................M.,........................................................., 2025
..................................................................................
Tina Kotek, Governor
Filed in Office of Secretary of State:
........................M.,........................................................., 2025
..................................................................................
Tobias Read, Secretary of State
Enrolled House Bill 2930 (HB 2930-INTRO) Page 6