1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
81st OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2021 Regular Session
Senate Joint Resolution 12
Sponsored by Senator STEINER HAYWARD, Representative NOSSE (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Proposes amendment to Oregon Constitution establishing obligation of  state to ensure every
resident of  state access to cost-effective, clinically appropriate and affordable health care. Requires
state to  balance obligation to ensure health care with funding of public schools and other essential
public services.
Refers proposed amendment to people for their approval or rejection at next  regular general
election.
JOINT RESOLUTION
Whereas there are many components that contribute to good health, including  the ability to
respond to sickness, disease and injury; and
Whereas achieving the  goal of living a healthy life is impossible without the ability to access
health care; and
Whereas health care should be available to everyone; and
Whereas the lack of available health care is a barrier  to opportunity, success and quality of life;
and
Whereas Oregonians  should not be divided between those who can afford to be healthy and
those who cannot; and
Whereas Oregonians should not be divided between those who have  hopes and dreams and those
whose sickness, disease or injury robs them of their hopes and dreams; now, therefore,
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
PARAGRAPH 1.
 The Constitution of the State of Oregon is amended by creating a new  section
47 to be added to and made a part of Article I, such section to read:
SECTION 47. (1) It is the obligation of the state to ensure that every  resident of Oregon
has access to cost-effective, clinically appropriate and affordable health care  as a funda-
mental right.
(2) The obligation of the state described  in subsection (1) of this section must be balanced
against the public interest in funding public schools and  other essential public services, and
any remedy arising from an action brought  against the state to enforce the provisions of this
section may not interfere with the balance described in this subsection.
PARAGRAPH 2. The amendment proposed by this resolution shall be submitted to the
people for their approval or rejection at the next  regular general election held throughout
this state.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 831