1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2024 Regular Session
House Bill 4111
Sponsored by Representative RESCHKE, Senator FINDLEY; Representatives BOICE, BREESE-IVERSON,  LEVY
B, LEVY E, RUIZ, WALTERS, Senators GORSEK, MANNING JR, SMITH DB (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act makes all farm machinery tax exempt. (Flesch Readability Score: 66.1).
Removes the requirement that farm machinery and equipment be tangible personal property for
the purposes of exemption from ad valorem property taxation.
Takes effect on the 91st day following adjournment sine die.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to farm machinery  and equipment; amending ORS 307.394; and prescribing an effective date.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 307.394 is amended to read:
307.394. (1) The following [ tangible personal ] property is exempt from ad valorem property taxa-
tion:
(a) Farm machinery and  equipment used or held for use  primarily in the preparation of land[ ,]
or the  planting, raising, cultivating, irrigating, harvesting , [ or] placing  in storage or preparing for
storage or shipping of farm crops;
(b) Farm machinery and equipment used or held for use  primarily for the purpose of :
(A) Feeding[ ,] or breeding[ , management and sale of, or the produce of, ] livestock, poultry, fur-
bearing animals or bees ;
(B) The management and sale of livestock, poultry, fur-bearing animals  or bees or their
produce; or
(C) [ for] Dairying and the sale of dairy products;
(c) Machinery and equipment used or held for use  primarily  to implement a remediation plan
as defined in ORS 308A.053 for the period of time for which the remediation plan is certified; or
(d) Farm machinery  and equipment used or held for use  primarily in any other agricultural or
horticultural use or animal husbandry or any combination of these activities.
(2)(a) Items of [ tangible personal ] property, including , but not limited to , tools, machinery and
equipment that are used [ predominantly] or held  for use primarily  in the construction, recon-
struction, maintenance, repair, support or operation of farm machinery, and equipment  and other
real or personal farm improvements that are  used or held for use  primarily in animal husbandry,
agricultural or horticultural  activities, or any combination of these activities, are exempt from ad
valorem property taxation.
(b) An  item of [ tangible personal ] property described in paragraph (a) of this subsection is ex-
empt from ad valorem property taxation only if the person that owns, possesses or controls the item
also:
(A) Owns, possesses  or controls the farm machinery, equipment and other real and personal farm
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 141
HB 4111
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
improvements for which the item is used  or held for use ; and
(B) Carries  on the animal husbandry, agricultural or horticultural activity, or combination of
activities, in which  the farm machinery, equipment or other real and personal farm improvements
are used  or held for use .
SECTION 2.
This 2024 Act takes effect on the 91st day after the date on  which the 2024
regular session of the Eighty-second Legislative Assembly adjourns sine die.
[2]