1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 3321
Sponsored by Representatives WALTERS, SANCHEZ
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act tells the ADPC to create a statewide strategy for preventing  substance use.
(Flesch Readability Score: 65.7).
Directs the Alcohol and Drug Policy Commission to develop and implement a primary prevention
state strategy to prevent the onset of substance use. Requires the commission to report to the Leg-
islative Assembly every two years on the implementation of the strategy.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to primary prevention of substance use.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) As used in this section:
(a) “Indicated prevention” means prevention strategies that focus  on individuals who
exhibit early signs of substance use or other risk factors but who do not have a diagnosable
substance use disorder.
(b) “Selective prevention” means prevention strategies that target individuals, or groups
of individuals, whose risk of developing a substance use disorder is  significantly higher than
average.
(c) “Universal prevention” means prevention strategies that  are aimed at the general
public or a whole population group, without identifying individuals who are at particular risk
of developing a substance use disorder.
(2) The  Alcohol and Drug Policy Commission shall develop and implement a primary
prevention state strategy to prevent the onset of substance use by:
(a) Promoting health and well-being among individuals who have not begun  using alcohol,
tobacco or controlled substances;
(b) Creating environments and conditions that support  healthy behaviors and lifestyle
choices before any problematic behaviors occur;
(c) Focusing on education, building protective factors and reducing risk factors; and
(d) Utilizing universal prevention, selective prevention and indicated prevention  strate-
gies.
(2) In developing a primary prevention state strategy, the commission shall:
(a) Conduct, or contract with a third party to conduct, a gap  analysis that compares the
need for primary prevention services with the current  capacity to provide primary pre-
vention services in this state;
(b) Conduct, or contract with a third party to conduct, a financial accounting of  current
primary prevention expenses in this  state, including services funded and the funding sources
and amounts for those services; and
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1062
HB 3321
1
2
3
4
5
6
(c) Define state  agency responsibilities, outline funding models and identify implementa-
tion strategies and expected outcomes.
(3) At least once every two years, the commission shall report  to the interim committees
of the Legislative Assembly related to health, in the manner  provided in ORS 192.245, on the
implementation of the primary prevention state strategy developed under this section.
[2]