1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 3912
Sponsored by Representative JAVADI
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act makes a person who says they are a  doctor on some materials say in what
health care profession they are a doctor. (Flesch Readability Score: 69.6).
Requires an individual who uses the title “doctor” in connection with a health  care profession
to designate on specified material, including social  media and professional name badges, the health
care profession in which the individual earned a doctoral degree.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to use of the title “doctor”; amending ORS 676.110.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 676.110 is amended to read:
676.110. (1) An individual practicing a health care profession may not use the title  “doctor” in
connection with the profession, unless the individual:
(a) Has earned a doctoral degree in the individual’s field of practice; and
(b)(A) Is licensed by a health professional regulatory board to practice the particular health care
profession in which the individual’s doctoral degree was earned; or
(B) Is working under a board-approved residency contract and  is practicing under the license
of a supervisor who is licensed by [ a] the health professional regulatory board to practice the par-
ticular health care profession in which the individual’s doctoral degree was earned.
[(2) If an individual  uses the title “doctor” in connection with a health care profession at any time,
the individual must designate the health care profession in which the individual’s doctoral  degree was
earned on all written  or printed matter, advertising, billboards, signs or professional notices used in
connection with the health care profession, regardless of whether the individual’s name or the  title
“doctor” appears on the written or printed matter, advertising, billboard, sign or professional notice.
The designation must be in letters  or print at least one-fourth the size of the largest letters used on the
written or printed matter, advertising,  billboard, sign or professional notice, and in material, color, type
or illumination to give display and legibility of at least one-fourth that of the  largest letters used on the
written or printed matter, advertising, billboard, sign or professional notice. ]
(2)(a) As  used in this subsection, “material” means electronic or printed matter, social
media, advertising, billboards, signs, professional notices and professional name badges.
(b) An individual who uses the title “doctor” in connection  with the health care profes-
sion the individual practices shall designate the health care profession in which the individual
earned a doctoral degree  on all material used in connection with the health care profession.
The designation must:
(A) Be in letters or print at least one-fourth the size of the largest letters or  print used
on the material; and
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2386
HB 3912
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
(B) Be in color, type, illumination or matter so as to give display and legibility of at  least
one-fourth that of the largest letters used on the material.
(3) Subsection (1) of this section does not prohibit:
(a) A chiropractic physician licensed under ORS chapter 684 from using the title  “chiropractic
physician”;
(b) A naturopathic physician licensed under ORS chapter  685 from using the title “naturopathic
physician”;
(c) A person licensed to practice optometry under ORS chapter 683  from using the title “doctor
of optometry” or “optometric physician”; or
(d) A physician licensed under ORS 677.805 to 677.840 from using the title  “podiatric
physician.”
[2]