1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2024 Regular Session
House Bill 4143
Sponsored by Representative BOICE, Senator  SMITH DB, Representatives OSBORNE, HIEB; Representatives
BREESE-IVERSON, LEVY B, MCINTIRE, OWENS, RESCHKE, Senators LINTHICUM,  WEBER (Presession
filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The  Act tells some entities to keep males and females apart for purposes of playing
sports, spending time in prison or jail and using some bathrooms. (Flesch Readability Score: 60.0).
Requires athletic organizations, institutions  of higher education and school districts to designate
athletic competitions according to biological sex. Subject to a limited exception for  individuals
whose biological sex is  female, prohibits individuals of one biological sex from competing in athletic
competitions designated for the opposite biological sex.
Provides that each  Department of Corrections institution and local correctional facility, or area
within an institution or facility, must be designated for incarcerating adults in custody of  the same
biological sex. Prohibits incarcerating adults  in custody in an institution, facility or area that is
designated for incarcerating adults in custody of the opposite sex.
Directs each public body to designate  the biological sex of individuals who may use a multiple
occupancy restroom under the custody or control of the public  body. Prohibits individuals of one
biological sex from using  a multiple occupancy restroom that is designated for the opposite biolog-
ical sex.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to biological sex.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
As used in sections 1 to 4 of this 2024 Act:
(1) “Adult in custody” has the meaning given that term in ORS 423.076.
(2) “Athletic competition” means any athletic display between teams  or individuals, such
as a contest, exhibition, performance or sport.
(3) “Athletic organization” means any private, interscholastic  or intercollegiate organ-
ization, association or entity that administers or operates one or more sports teams, leagues,
programs, competitions, contests or other sports activity.
(4) “Biological sex” means an individual’s sex,  being male or female, as determined at
birth according to reproductive organs and chromosomal makeup.
(5) “Department of Corrections institution” has the meaning giving that term in  ORS
421.005.
(6) “Institution of higher education” has the meaning given that term in ORS 348.582.
(7) “Local correctional facility” has the meaning given that term in ORS 169.005.
(8) “Multiple occupancy  restroom” means an area designed or designated to be used by
more than one individual at a time, in which  individuals may be in various stages of undress
in the  presence of other individuals, including, but not limited to, a restroom, locker room,
changing room or shower room.
(9) “Public body” has the meaning given that term in ORS 174.109.
(10) “School district” has the meaning given that term in ORS 330.005.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 167
HB 4143
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
SECTION 2.
(1) Each athletic organization,  institution of higher education and school
district shall designate in writing  the biological sex of individuals who may participate in an
athletic competition as follows:
(a) “Males,” “Men” or “Boys”;
(b) “Females,” “Women” or “Girls”; or
(c) “Male and Female,” “Men and Women” or “Boys and Girls.”
(2) Except as provided in subsection  (3) of this section, an athletic organization, institu-
tion of higher education or school district may not allow an individual to  compete in an
athletic competition sponsored or  authorized by the athletic organization, institution of
higher education or school district  that is designated for the biological sex opposite to the
biological sex of the individual.
(3) An athletic organization,  institution of higher education or school district may allow
an individual whose biological sex is female to compete in an athletic competition that  is
designated for individuals whose biological sex is male if  the athletic organization, institution
of higher education or school district does not offer a  corresponding athletic competition
that is designated for individuals whose biological sex is female.
SECTION 3.
(1) Each Department of Corrections institution and local correctional facil-
ity, or area of an  institution or facility, as the case may be, must be designated for adults
in custody of the same biological sex.
(2) An  adult in custody may not be held in the physical custody of a Department of Cor-
rections institution or local correctional facility, or an area within an  institution or facility,
that is designated for incarcerating adults in custody of the opposite biological sex.
SECTION 4. (1) All multiple occupancy restrooms under the custody or control of  a
public body must be for the exclusive use of individuals who are of the same biological sex.
(2) Each public body shall designate by signage the biological sex of  individuals who may
use a multiple occupancy restroom as follows:
(a) “Males,” “Men” or “Boys”; or
(b) “Females,” “Women” or “Girls.”
(3) An individual may not use a  multiple occupancy restroom under this section that is
designated for individuals of the opposite biological sex.
[2]