1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2026 Regular Session
Senate Joint Resolution 202
Sponsored by Senators PROZANSKI, FREDERICK; Senators GELSER BLOUIN, GOLDEN, PATTERSON, Repre-
sentatives CHOTZEN, GAMBA, HUDSON, SOSA, WISE (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Asks voters to say yes or no to adding  a day to the length of a regular session for each
day that the Senate or the House fails to get a quorum after trying to do so. Asks voters to  decide
at the next general election. (Flesch Readability Score: 73.1).
Proposes an amendment  to the Oregon Constitution to extend the duration of a regular session
of the Legislative Assembly by one calendar day for each day that the  Senate or the House of
Representatives fails to achieve a quorum after attempting to do so.
Refers the proposed amendment to the people for their approval or rejection at the next regular
general election.
JOINT RESOLUTION
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
PARAGRAPH 1.
 Section 10, Article IV  of the Constitution of the State of Oregon, is amended
to read:
Sec. 10.  (1) The Legislative Assembly shall hold annual sessions at the  Capitol of the State.
Each session must begin on the day designated by law as the first day  of the session. Except as
provided in subsection (3)  or (4)  of this section:
(a) A session beginning in an odd-numbered year  may not exceed 160 calendar days in duration;
and
(b) A session beginning in an even-numbered year  may not exceed 35 calendar days in duration.
(2) The Legislative Assembly may hold an organizational session that is not  subject to the limits
of subsection (1) of this section for the purposes of introducing measures and performing the  duties
and effecting  the organization described in sections 11 and 12 of this Article. The Legislative As-
sembly may not undertake final consideration of a measure or  reconsideration of a measure follow-
ing a gubernatorial veto when convened in an organizational session.
(3) A regular session, as described in subsection (1) of this  section, may be extended for a period
of five calendar days by  the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the members of each house. A session
may be  extended more than once. An extension must begin on the first calendar day after the end
of the immediately  preceding session or extension except that if the first calendar day is a Sunday,
the extension may begin on the next Monday.
(4) A regular session, as described in  subsection (1) of this section, shall be extended by
one calendar day for each day during that regular session that the  Senate or the House of
Representatives fails to achieve a quorum  in order to conduct legislative business after at-
tempting to do so.
PARAGRAPH 2. The amendment proposed by this resolution shall be submitted to  the
people for their approval or rejection  at the next regular general election held throughout
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 187
SJR 202
1
2
this state.
[2]