1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 180
Printed pursuant to  Senate Interim Rule 213.28 by order of the President of the Senate in conformance with pre-
session filing rules,  indicating neither advocacy nor opposition on the part of the President (at the request
of Senate Interim Committee on Judiciary)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act says that a plaintiff may not sue a person who talks about certain  bad behavior
for defamation if the person has a reasonable belief that it happened. The Act says that the plaintiff
has to pay the person’s lawyer fees and sanctions. (Flesch Readability Score: 61.4).
Provides  that  a person may not bring an action for defamation against an individual who,
without malice, makes a communication regarding an  incident of sexual assault, harassment or dis-
crimination if, at the time of making the communication, the individual has a  reasonable belief that
sexual assault, harassment or discrimination occurred. Allows the prevailing defendant  to recover
attorney fees and provides for imposition of remedial sanctions against the plaintiff.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to retaliatory actions for defamation.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) A person may not bring an action for defamation against an individual
who, without malice, makes a communication regarding  an incident of sexual assault,
harassment or discrimination if, at  the time of making the communication, the individual
has a reasonable belief that sexual assault, harassment or discrimination  occurred, whether
or not the individual filed an official complaint.
(2) A prevailing defendant in an action brought in  violation of subsection (1) of this sec-
tion is entitled to recover reasonable attorney fees.
(3) A  nonprevailing plaintiff in an action brought in violation of subsection (1) of this
section is subject to imposition  of remedial sanctions under ORS 33.055, including but not
limited to payment to the prevailing defendant of a sum of  money sufficient to compensate
the prevailing defendant for loss, injury and costs suffered by the prevailing defendant as a
result of the action for defamation.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2708