79th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2017 Regular Session
Enrolled
House Bill 2134
Introduced and printed pursuant to House Rule 12.00. Presession filed (at the request of House In-
terim Committee on Energy and Environment)
CHAPTER .................................................
AN ACT
Relating to low-income electric bill payment assistance; amending ORS 757.612; and prescribing an
effective  date.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.  ORS 757.612 is amended to read:
757.612. (1) There is  established an annual public purpose expenditure standard for electric
companies and Oregon Community Power to fund new  cost-effective [ local] energy conservation, new
market transformation efforts, the above-market costs of new renewable energy resources and new
low-income weatherization. The public purpose expenditure standard shall be  funded by the public
purpose charge described in subsection (2) of this section.
(2)(a) Beginning on the date an electric company or Oregon Community  Power offers direct ac-
cess to  [ its] retail electricity consumers, except residential electricity consumers, the electric com-
pany or Oregon Community Power  shall collect a public purpose charge from all of the retail
electricity consumers located within [ its] the electric company’s  or Oregon Community Power’s
service area until January 1, 2026. Except as provided in paragraph  (b) of this subsection, the public
purpose charge shall be equal to three percent of the total  revenues collected by the electric com-
pany, Oregon Community Power or the electricity  service supplier from [ its] retail electricity con-
sumers for electricity services, distribution  services , ancillary services, metering and billing,
transition charges and other types of costs included in electric rates on July 23, 1999.
(b) For an aluminum plant that averages more  than 100 average megawatts of electricity use
per year, [ beginning on March 1,  2002,] the electric company or Oregon Community Power [ whose],
whichever serves territory  that  abuts the greatest percentage  of the site of the aluminum plant ,
shall collect  from the aluminum company a public purpose charge equal to one percent of the total
revenue from the sale of electricity services to the aluminum plant from any source.
(3)(a) The Public Utility Commission shall establish rules implementing the provisions  of this
section relating to electric companies and Oregon Community Power.
(b) [ Subject to paragraph  (e) ] Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this subsection, funds
collected [ by an electric company or Oregon  Community Power ] through public purpose charges  un-
der subsection (2) of this section  shall be allocated as follows:
(A) Sixty-three percent for new cost-effective energy conservation[ ,] and new market transfor-
mation efforts.
(B) Nineteen percent  for the above-market costs of constructing and operating new renewable
energy resources  with a nominal electric generating capacity, as defined in ORS 469.300, of 20
megawatts or less.
Enrolled House Bill 2134 (HB 2134-A) Page 1
(C) Thirteen percent for new low-income weatherization.
(D) Five  percent [ shall be transferred to ] for deposit in  the Housing and Community Services
Department Electricity Public Purpose  Charge Fund established by ORS 456.587 (1) [ and used ] for
the purpose of providing grants as described in ORS 458.625 (2).
(c) The costs of administering subsections (1) to (6) of this section  for an electric company or
Oregon Community Power shall  be paid out of the funds collected through public purpose charges.
The commission may require [ that] an electric company  or Oregon Community Power to direct funds
collected  through  public purpose charges to [ the] state agencies responsible for implementing sub-
sections (1) to  (6) of this section in order to pay the costs of [ administering such responsibilities ]
administering subsections (1) to (6) of this section .
(d) The  commission shall direct the manner in which public purpose charges are collected and
spent by an electric company or Oregon Community Power  and may require an electric company
or Oregon Community Power to expend funds  through competitive bids or other means designed to
encourage competition, except that funds dedicated for new low-income weatherization shall be di-
rected to the Housing and Community Services Department [ as provided in subsection  (7) of this
section] for purposes related to new low-income weatherization . The  commission [ may also direct
that] may also require  funds collected [ by an electric company or Oregon Community Power ] through
public purpose charges to be paid to a  nongovernmental entity for investment in public purposes
described in subsection (1) of this section. Notwithstanding any other provision of this subsection:
(A) If an electric company collected the funds, at least 80 percent of the funds allocated  for
new cost-effective energy  conservation shall be spent within the service area of the electric
company [ that collected the funds ]; or
(B) If Oregon Community Power collected the funds, at least 80 percent of the  funds allocated
for new cost-effective  energy conservation shall be spent within the service area of Oregon Com-
munity Power.
(e)(A) The first 10 percent of [ the] funds collected [ annually] each year by an electric  company
or Oregon Community Power under subsection (2) of this  section shall be distributed to school dis-
tricts that are located in the service territory of the electric company or  Oregon Community Power.
The funds shall be distributed  to individual school districts according to the weighted average daily
membership (ADMw) of each school district for the prior fiscal year as calculated under  ORS
327.013. The commission shall establish by rule a methodology for distributing  a proportionate share
of funds under  this paragraph to school districts that are only partially located in the service ter-
ritory of the electric company or Oregon Community Power.
(B) A school district that  receives funds under this paragraph shall use the funds first to pay
for energy audits for schools  located within the school district. A school district may not expend
additional funds received under this paragraph on a school [ facility] until an energy  audit has been
completed for that  school [ facility]. To the extent practicable, a school district shall coordinate with
the State Department of Energy and incorporate federal funding in complying  with this paragraph.
Following completion of an  energy audit for an individual school, the school district may expend
funds received under this paragraph to implement the energy audit. Once an energy audit has  been
conducted and completely implemented for each school within the school district, the school district
may expend funds received under this paragraph for any of the following purposes:
(i) Conducting additional energy audits. A school district shall conduct an energy  audit prior
to expending funds on any other purpose authorized under this paragraph unless  the school district
has performed an energy audit within the three years immediately prior to receiving the funds.
(ii) [ Weatherization ] Weatherizing school district facilities  and upgrading the  energy effi-
ciency of school district facilities.
(iii) Energy conservation education programs.
(iv) Purchasing electricity from environmentally focused sources [ and].
(v) Investing in renewable energy resources.
(f) The  commission may not establish a different public purpose charge than the public purpose
charge described in subsection (2) of this section.
Enrolled House Bill 2134 (HB 2134-A) Page 2
(g) If the  commission [ directs] requires funds collected through public purpose charges to be
paid to a nongovernmental entity, the entity shall:
(A) Include on the entity’s board of directors an ex officio member  designated by the commis-
sion, who shall also serve on the entity’s nominating committee for filling board vacancies.
(B) Require the  entity’s officers and directors to provide an annual disclosure of economic in-
terest to be  filed with the commission on or prior to April 15 of each calendar year for public review
in a form similar to the statement of economic interest required  for public officials under ORS
244.060.
(C) Require the entity’s officers and directors to declare actual and potential conflicts of interest
at regular meetings of the entity’s governing body when such conflicts arise, and require an officer
or director to abstain from participating in any discussion or  [ vote] voting on any item where that
officer or director has an actual conflict of interest. For the purposes of this  subparagraph, “actual
conflict of interest” and “potential conflict of interest” have the meanings given those  terms in ORS
244.020.
(D) Annually, arrange for an independent auditor to audit the entity’s financial statements
[annually], and direct the auditor to file an audit opinion with the commission for public review.
(E) Annually file with the commission [ annually] the entity’s budget,  action plan and quarterly
and annual reports for public review.
(F) At least  once every five years, contract for an independent management evaluation to review
the entity’s operations, efficiency and effectiveness, and direct the independent reviewer  to file a
report with the commission for public review.
(h) The commission may remove from the board of directors of a nongovernmental entity an  of-
ficer or director who fails to provide an annual disclosure of economic interest , or who fails to
declare an actual or potential conflict of interest, as described  in paragraph (g)(B) and (C) of this
subsection, [ in connection with ] if the failure is connected  to the allocation or expenditure of funds
collected through public purpose charges and [ directed] paid to the entity.
(4)(a) An electric company that satisfies its obligations under this section [ shall have ]:
(A) Has  no further obligation to invest in new cost-effective  energy conservation, new market
transformation or new low-income weatherization , or to provide a commercial energy conservation
services program ; and
(B) Is not subject to ORS 469.631 to 469.645 and 469.860 to 469.900.
(b) Oregon Community Power,  for any period during which Oregon Community Power collects
a public purpose charge under subsection (2) of this section:
(A) [ Shall have ] Has no [ other] further obligation to invest in new cost-effective energy  con-
servation, new market transformation  or new low-income weatherization , or to provide a commercial
energy conservation services program; and
(B) Is not subject to ORS 469.631 to 469.645 and 469.860 to 469.900.
(5)(a) A retail electricity consumer that uses more than  one average megawatt of electricity at
any site in the prior year shall receive a  credit against public purpose charges billed by an electric
company or Oregon Community Power  for that site. The amount of the credit shall be equal to the
total amount of qualifying expenditures for new cost-effective energy conservation, not to exceed
68 percent of the annual public purpose charges, and the above-market costs [ of purchases ] of new
renewable energy resources incurred by the retail  electricity consumer, not to exceed 19 percent
of the annual public purpose charges, less administration costs incurred under this paragraph and
paragraphs (b) and (c)  of this subsection. The credit may not exceed, on an annual basis, the lesser
of:
(A) The amount of the retail electricity consumer’s qualifying expenditures; or
(B) The  portion of the public purpose charge billed to the retail electricity consumer that is
dedicated to new  cost-effective energy conservation, new market transformation or the above-
market costs of new renewable energy resources.
(b) To obtain a credit under paragraph (a) of this subsection, a retail electricity consumer shall
file with the State Department of Energy a description of  the proposed conservation project or new
Enrolled House Bill 2134 (HB 2134-A) Page 3
renewable energy resource and a declaration that the retail electricity  consumer plans to incur the
qualifying expenditure. The State Department of Energy shall issue a  notice of precertification
within 30 days of  receipt of the filing, if such filing is consistent with paragraph (a) of  this sub-
section. The credit may be  taken after a retail electricity consumer provides a letter from a certified
public accountant to the State Department of Energy verifying that  the precertified qualifying ex-
penditure has been made.
(c) Credits earned by a retail electricity consumer as  a result of qualifying expenditures that
are not used in one year may be carried forward for use in subsequent years.
(d)(A) A retail electricity consumer that uses more than one average megawatt of  electricity at
any site in the prior year may request that the  State Department of Energy hire an independent
auditor to assess the potential for conservation investments at the site. If  the independent auditor
determines there  is no available conservation measure at the site that would have a simple payback
of one to 10 years, the retail electricity consumer shall be relieved of 54 percent of its  payment
obligation for public purpose charges related to the site. If the  independent auditor determines that
there are potential conservation measures  available at the site, the retail electricity consumer shall
be entitled to a credit against public purpose charges related to the site equal to 54 percent  of the
public purpose charges less the estimated cost of available conservation measures.
(B) A retail electricity consumer shall be entitled each year  to the credit described in this
[subsection] paragraph unless a  subsequent independent audit determines that new conservation
investment opportunities are available. The State  Department of Energy may require that a new
independent audit be performed on the site  to determine whether new conservation measures are
available, provided that the independent audits [ shall] occur no more than once every two years.
(C) The retail electricity consumer shall pay the cost of the independent  audits described in this
[subsection] paragraph.
(6) Electric utilities and retail electricity consumers  shall receive a fair and reasonable credit
for the public purpose expenditures  of their energy suppliers. The State Department of Energy shall
adopt rules to determine eligible expenditures and the [ methodology] method by which  such credits
are accounted for and used. The [ rules] State Department of Energy  also shall adopt methods to
account for eligible public purpose expenditures made through consortia or collaborative projects.
(7)(a) In addition to the public purpose  charge provided under subsection (2) of this section, an
electric company or Oregon Community Power shall  collect funds for low-income electric bill pay-
ment assistance in an amount determined under paragraph (b) of this subsection.
[(b) The commission shall establish the amount  to be collected by each electric company in calendar
year 2008 from retail electricity consumers served by the company, and the rates to be  charged to retail
electricity consumers served by the company, so that  the total anticipated collection for low-income
electric bill  payment assistance by all electric companies in calendar year 2008 is $15 million. In cal-
endar year 2009 and subsequent calendar years, the commission  may not change the rates established
for retail electricity consumers, but the total amount collected in a calendar  year for low-income electric
bill payment assistance may vary based on electricity usage by retail electricity consumers  and changes
in the number of retail electricity consumers in this state. In no  event shall a retail electricity consumer
be required to pay more than $500 per month per site for low-income electric bill payment assistance. ]
(b) The commission shall  establish the amount to be collected by each electric company
from retail electricity consumers, and the rates  to be charged by each electric company to
retail electricity  consumers, so that the forecasted collection by all electric companies in
calendar year 2018 is $20 million. In  subsequent calendar years, the commission may not
decrease the rates below those established for calendar year 2018.  The commission may
temporarily adjust the rates if  forecasted collections or actual collections are less than $20
million in any calendar year. A retail electricity consumer may not be required to pay  more
than $500 per month per site for low-income electric bill payment assistance.
(c) Funds collected [ by] through the low-income  electric bill payment assistance charge shall
be paid into the Housing  and Community Services Department Low-Income Electric Bill Payment
Assistance Fund established by ORS 456.587 (2).  Moneys deposited in the fund under this paragraph
Enrolled House Bill 2134 (HB 2134-A) Page 4
shall be used by the Housing and Community Services Department solely for [ the purpose of
funding] purposes related to  low-income  electric bill payment assistance[ .] and for  the Housing
and Community Services  Department’s cost of administering  this subsection . [ shall be paid out of
funds collected by  the low-income electric bill payment assistance charge. Moneys deposited in the fund
under this paragraph shall be expended solely for low-income electric bill payment assistance. ] Funds
collected [ from] by an electric  company or Oregon Community Power under this subsection  shall
be expended in the service area of the  electric company or Oregon Community Power from which
the funds are collected.
(d)(A) The Housing and Community Services  Department shall determine the manner in which
funds collected under this subsection will be  allocated by the Housing and Community Services
Department to energy assistance program providers for the purpose of providing low-income bill
payment and crisis assistance.
(B) The Housing and Community Services  Department , in consultation with electric com-
panies, shall investigate and may  implement alternative delivery models [ in consultation with electric
companies] to effectively reduce  service disconnections and related costs to retail electricity con-
sumers and electric utilities.
(C) Priority assistance  shall be directed to low-income electricity consumers who are in danger
of having their electricity service disconnected.
(D) The Housing and Community Services  Department shall maintain records  and provide
those records upon request to  an electric company, Oregon Community Power and the Citizens’
Utility Board established under ORS chapter 774  on a quarterly basis. Records maintained must
include the numbers of low-income electricity consumers served,  the average amounts paid to low-
income electricity  consumers  and the type of assistance provided to low-income electricity
consumers. Electric companies and  Oregon Community Power shall, if requested, provide the
Housing and Community Services  Department with  aggregate data relating to  low-income elec-
tricity consumers served on a quarterly basis to support program development.
(e) Interest on moneys deposited  in the Housing and Community Services Department Low-
Income Electric Bill Payment Assistance Fund established by ORS 456.587 (2) may be  used to pro-
vide bill payment and  crisis assistance to electricity consumers whose primary source of heat is not
electricity.
(f) Notwithstanding ORS 757.310, the commission may allow an electric company  or Oregon
Community Power to provide reduced rates  or other  bill payment or crisis assistance or low-income
program assistance to a low-income household eligible for assistance under the federal Low  Income
Home Energy Assistance Act of 1981, as amended and in effect on July 23, 1999.
(8) For purposes  of this section, “retail electricity consumers” includes any direct service in-
dustrial consumer that purchases electricity without purchasing distribution services from the elec-
tric utility.
(9) For purposes of this section, [ amounts] funds collected by Oregon Community Power through
public purpose charges are not considered moneys received from electric utility operations.
SECTION 2.
This 2017 Act takes effect on January 2, 2018.
Enrolled House Bill 2134 (HB 2134-A) Page 5
Passed by House March 30, 2017
..................................................................................
Timothy G. Sekerak, Chief Clerk of House
..................................................................................
Tina Kotek, Speaker of House
Passed by Senate May 23, 2017
..................................................................................
Peter Courtney, President of Senate
Received by Governor:
........................M.,........................................................., 2017
Approved:
........................M.,........................................................., 2017
..................................................................................
Kate Brown, Governor
Filed in Office of Secretary of State:
........................M.,........................................................., 2017
..................................................................................
Dennis Richardson, Secretary of State
Enrolled House Bill 2134 (HB 2134-A) Page 6