1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
80th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2019 Regular Session
Senate Bill 352
Sponsored by Senators MONNES ANDERSON, ROBLAN, Representative NOSSE; Senators DEMBROW,  GELSER,
TAYLOR, Representatives BARKER,  GORSEK, GREENLICK, NEARMAN, PILUSO, POWER, SALINAS,
SANCHEZ, SCHOUTEN, WILDE (at the request of Tucker Maxon School) (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Appropriates moneys from General Fund to Oregon  Department of Administrative Services for
distribution  to  Tucker Maxon School to provide financial aid to students with hearing loss who
cannot afford tuition and for capital improvements.
Declares emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to the Tucker Maxon School; and declaring an emergency.
Whereas the nonprofit Tucker  Maxon School is an inclusive school that coeducates children
with hearing loss and children with  typical hearing with the mission of helping children with hear-
ing loss listen, talk and fully participate in the world around them; and
Whereas the Tucker Maxon School has provided services for children in Oregon and southwest
Washington for 72 years; and
Whereas the facilities and services that  the Tucker Maxon School provides to students with
hearing loss include sound-field speakers and FM  transmitters in each classroom and extensive
one-on-one time with speech language pathologists and other specialists; and
Whereas the model  of the Tucker Maxon School successfully prepares students with hearing loss
for mainstream schools without the need for further special education services; now, therefore,
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there is appropri-
ated to the Oregon Department of  Administrative Services, for the biennium beginning July
1, 2019, out of the General Fund,  the amount of $500,000 for distribution to the Tucker Maxon
School in Portland, to be used for the following purposes:
(1) $250,000 to provide financial aid to students with hearing loss who cannot afford tui-
tion at the school.
(2) $250,000 for capital improvements.
SECTION 2.
This 2019 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist,  and this 2019 Act takes effect
on its passage.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2063