1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2026 Regular Session
Senate Bill 1594
Sponsored by Senator JAMA, Representative RUIZ, Senator  MANNING JR, Representatives ANDERSEN,
CHAICHI, VALDERRAMA; Senators FREDERICK, NERON  MISSLIN, PATTERSON, PHAM K, PROZANSKI,
SOLLMAN, WAGNER, Representatives CHOTZEN, EVANS, FRAGALA, GAMBA, GRAYBER, ISADORE,
MCDONALD, MUNOZ, NELSON, NGUYEN D, RIEKE SMITH, WATANABE, WISE (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Directs OIRA to make model  policies that a public body may use. (Flesch Readability
Score: 60.7).
Directs the Office of Immigrant and  Refugee Advancement to develop and maintain model poli-
cies, standards and procedures related to the enforcement of federal immigration  laws. Encourages
all public bodies to implement their own policies, standards and procedures based  on the model
policies, standards and procedures.
Declares an emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to immigration; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) As used in this section:
(a) “Federal immigration authority” has the meaning given that term in ORS 180.805.
(b) “Information concerning a  person’s citizenship or immigration status” has the
meaning given that term in ORS 180.805.
(c) “Public body” has the meaning given that term in ORS 174.109.
(2) The Office of Immigrant and Refugee  Advancement, to the extent the office has re-
sources, shall develop and  maintain model administrative policies, standards and procedures
that address the following:
(a) How a public body  manages information concerning a person’s citizenship or immi-
gration status or other information concerning a person that may be used for the  purpose
of enforcement of federal immigration laws.
(b) Procedures that personnel of a public body may follow if federal immigration author-
ities or other federal agents arrive at or enter a facility operated by the public body.
(3) The model administrative  policies, standards and procedures must incorporate privacy
protection, verification procedures, escalation procedures and documentation,  and be con-
sistent with state and federal law.
(4) All public bodies are encouraged to implement administrative policies,  standards and
procedures based on the model  administrative policies, standards and procedures that are
developed and maintained by the office.
SECTION 2.
This 2026 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist,  and this 2026 Act takes effect
on its passage.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 161