80th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2019 Regular Session
Enrolled
House Bill 2001
Sponsored by Representative KOTEK; Representatives FAHEY, HERNANDEZ, MARSH,
MITCHELL, POWER, STARK, WILLIAMS, ZIKA (Presession filed.)
CHAPTER .................................................
AN ACT
Relating to housing; creating new  provisions; amending ORS 197.296, 197.303, 197.312 and 455.610
and section 1, chapter 47, Oregon Laws 2018; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1. Section 2 of this 2019 Act is added to and made a part of ORS chapter 197.
SECTION 2. (1) As used in this section:
(a) “Cottage clusters” means groupings of no fewer than four detached housing units per
acre with a footprint of less than 900 square feet each and that  include a common courtyard.
(b) “Middle housing” means:
(A) Duplexes;
(B) Triplexes;
(C) Quadplexes;
(D) Cottage clusters; and
(E) Townhouses.
(c) “Townhouses” means a dwelling unit constructed in a row of two or more  attached
units, where each dwelling unit is located on an individual lot or parcel and shares  at least
one common wall with an adjacent unit.
(2) Except as provided in  subsection (4) of this section, each city with a population of
25,000 or more and each county or city within a metropolitan service district shall allow  the
development of:
(a) All middle housing types in areas  zoned for residential use that allow for the devel-
opment of detached single-family dwellings; and
(b) A duplex on  each lot or parcel zoned for residential use that allows for the develop-
ment of detached single-family dwellings.
(3) Except as provided in subsection (4) of  this section, each city not within a metropol-
itan service district with a population of more than  10,000 and less than 25,000 shall allow the
development of a duplex on each lot or parcel zoned for residential use that  allows for the
development of detached single-family dwellings. Nothing in this subsection  prohibits a local
government from allowing middle housing types in addition to duplexes.
(4) This section does not apply to:
(a) Cities with a population of 1,000 or fewer;
(b) Lands not within an urban growth boundary;
(c) Lands that are not incorporated and also lack sufficient urban services,  as defined in
ORS 195.065;
Enrolled House Bill 2001 (HB 2001-B) Page 1
(d) Lands that are not zoned for residential use, including lands  zoned primarily for
commercial, industrial, agricultural or public uses; or
(e) Lands that are not incorporated and are zoned under an  interim zoning designation
that maintains the land’s potential for planned urban development.
(5) Local governments may regulate siting and design of middle housing required  to be
permitted under this section, provided that the  regulations do not, individually or cumula-
tively, discourage the development of  all middle housing types permitted in the area through
unreasonable costs or delay. Local governments may regulate middle housing to comply with
protective measures adopted pursuant to statewide land use planning goals.
(6) This section does not prohibit local governments from permitting:
(a) Single-family dwellings in areas zoned to allow for single-family dwellings; or
(b) Middle housing in areas not required under this section.
SECTION 3.
(1) Notwithstanding ORS 197.646, a  local government shall adopt land use
regulations or amend its comprehensive plan to implement section 2 of this  2019 Act no later
than:
(a) June 30, 2021, for each city subject to section 2 (3) of this 2019 Act; or
(b) June 30, 2022, for each local government subject to section 2 (2) of this 2019 Act.
(2) The Land Conservation  and Development Commission, with the assistance of the
Building Codes Division of the Department of Consumer and Business Services, shall develop
a model middle housing ordinance no later than December 31, 2020.
(3) A local government that has not acted within the time  provided under subsection (1)
of this section shall directly apply the model  ordinance developed by the commission under
subsection (2) of this section under ORS 197.646  (3) until the local government acts as de-
scribed in subsection (1) of this section.
(4) In adopting regulations or amending a comprehensive plan under this section,  a local
government shall consider ways to increase the affordability of middle housing by  consider-
ing ordinances and policies that include but are not limited to:
(a) Waiving or deferring system development charges;
(b) Adopting or  amending criteria for property tax exemptions under ORS 307.515 to
307.523, 307.540 to 307.548  or 307.651 to 307.687 or property tax freezes under ORS 308.450 to
308.481; and
(c) Assessing a construction tax under ORS 320.192 and 320.195.
(5) When a local government makes a legislative  decision to amend its comprehensive
plan or land use regulations to allow middle housing in areas zoned for residential use that
allow for detached single-family dwellings, the local government is  not required to consider
whether the amendments significantly affect an existing or planned transportation facility.
SECTION 4.
(1) Notwithstanding section 3 (1) or (3) of this 2019 Act, the Department  of
Land Conservation and Development may grant to a local government that is subject  to
section 2 of this 2019 Act an extension of the time allowed to adopt land use regulations  or
amend its comprehensive plan under section 3 of this 2019 Act.
(2) An extension under this section may be applied only to specific areas  where the local
government has  identified water, sewer, storm drainage or transportation services that are
either significantly deficient or are expected to be significantly deficient before December 31,
2023, and for which the local government has established a plan of actions  that will remedy
the deficiency in those services that is approved by the department. The extension may not
extend beyond the date that the  local government intends to correct the deficiency under the
plan.
(3) In areas where the extension under this section  does not apply, the local government
shall apply its own land use regulations consistent with  section 3 (1) of this 2019 Act or the
model ordinance developed under section 3 (2) of this 2019 Act.
(4) A request for an extension by a local  government must be filed with the department
no later than:
Enrolled House Bill 2001 (HB 2001-B) Page 2
(a) December 31, 2020, for a city subject to section 2 (3) of this 2019 Act.
(b) June 30, 2021, for a local government subject to section 2 (2) of this 2019 Act.
(5) The department shall grant or deny a request for an extension under this section:
(a) Within  90 days of receipt of a complete request from a city subject to section 2 (3)
of this 2019 Act.
(b) Within 120 days of  receipt of a complete request from a local government subject to
section 2 (2) of this 2019 Act.
(6) The department  shall adopt rules regarding the form and substance of a local
government’s application for an extension under this section. The  department may include
rules regarding:
(a) Defining the affected areas;
(b) Calculating deficiencies of water, sewer, storm drainage or transportation services;
(c) Service deficiency levels required to qualify for the extension;
(d) The components and timing of a remediation plan necessary to qualify for an  exten-
sion;
(e) Standards for evaluating applications; and
(f) Establishing deadlines and components for the approval of a plan of action.
SECTION 5.
 ORS 197.296 is amended to read:
197.296. (1)(a)  The provisions of subsections (2) to (9) of this section apply to metropolitan ser-
vice district regional framework plans and local  government comprehensive plans for lands within
the urban growth boundary of a city that is  located outside of a metropolitan service district and
has a population of 25,000 or more.
(b) The Land Conservation and Development Commission may establish a set of factors  under
which additional cities are subject to the provisions of this section. In  establishing the set of factors
required under this paragraph, the commission shall consider the  size of the city, the rate of popu-
lation growth of the city or the proximity of the city to another city with a population of  25,000 or
more or to a metropolitan service district.
(2) At periodic review pursuant to  ORS 197.628 to 197.651 or at any other legislative review of
the comprehensive plan or regional framework plan that concerns the urban growth boundary  and
requires the  application of a statewide planning goal relating to buildable lands for residential use,
a local  government shall demonstrate that its comprehensive plan or regional framework plan pro-
vides sufficient buildable lands within  the urban growth boundary established pursuant to statewide
planning goals to accommodate estimated housing needs for 20 years. The 20-year  period shall
commence on the date initially scheduled for completion of the periodic or legislative review.
(3) In performing the duties under subsection (2) of this section, a local government shall:
(a) Inventory the supply of buildable lands within the urban growth boundary and  determine the
housing capacity of the buildable lands; and
(b) Conduct an analysis of existing and projected housing need by type and density range, in
accordance with all factors under  ORS 197.303 and statewide planning goals and rules relating to
housing, to determine the number of units and amount of land needed  for each needed housing type
for the next 20 years.
(4)(a) For the  purpose of the inventory described in subsection (3)(a) of this section, “buildable
lands”  includes:
(A) Vacant lands planned or zoned for residential use;
(B) Partially vacant lands planned or zoned for residential use;
(C) Lands that may be used for a mix of residential and employment uses  under the existing
planning or zoning; and
(D) Lands that may be used for residential infill or redevelopment.
(b) For  the purpose of the inventory and determination of housing capacity described in sub-
section (3)(a) of this section, the local government must demonstrate consideration of:
(A) The extent that residential  development is prohibited or restricted by local regulation and
ordinance, state law and rule or federal statute and regulation;
Enrolled House Bill 2001 (HB 2001-B) Page 3
(B) A written long term contract or easement for radio, telecommunications or  electrical facili-
ties, if the written contract or easement is provided to the local government; and
(C) The presence of a single family dwelling or other structure on a lot or parcel.
(c) Except for land that may be used for residential infill or redevelopment, a local  government
shall create a map or document that may be used to  verify and identify specific lots or parcels that
have been determined to be buildable lands.
(5)(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and  (c) of this subsection, the determination of
housing capacity [ and need ] pursuant  to subsection [ (3)] (3)(a) of this section must be based on data
relating to land within the urban growth  boundary that has been collected since the last [ periodic]
review or [ five] six  years, whichever is greater. The data shall include:
(A) The number, density and average mix of housing  types of urban residential development that
have actually occurred;
(B) Trends in density and average mix of housing types of urban residential development;
(C) Market factors  that may substantially impact future urban residential development;
and
[(C) Demographic and population trends; ]
[(D) Economic trends and cycles; and ]
[(E)] (D)  The number, density and average  mix of housing types that have occurred on the
buildable lands described in subsection (4)(a) of this section.
(b) A local government shall make the determination described in paragraph (a) of this  sub-
section using a  shorter time period than the time period described in paragraph (a) of this sub-
section if the local government finds that the shorter time period will provide more accurate and
reliable data related to housing capacity [ and need ]. The shorter time period may not be less than
three years.
(c) A local government shall use data from a wider geographic area or use a  time period [ for
economic cycles and trends ] longer than the time period described in paragraph (a) of this  subsection
if the analysis of a wider geographic area or  the use of a longer time period will provide more ac-
curate, complete and reliable  data relating to trends affecting housing need than an analysis per-
formed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this subsection. The local government must clearly describe  the
geographic area, time frame and source of data used in a determination performed  under this para-
graph.
(6) If the housing need  determined pursuant to subsection (3)(b) of this section is greater than
the housing capacity determined pursuant  to subsection (3)(a) of this section, the local government
shall take one or [ more] both of the following actions to accommodate the additional housing  need:
(a) Amend its urban growth boundary to include sufficient buildable  lands to accommodate
housing needs for the next 20 years. As part of this process, the local  government shall consider the
effects of measures taken pursuant to paragraph (b) of this subsection. The amendment shall  include
sufficient land reasonably  necessary to accommodate the siting of new public school facilities. The
need and inclusion of lands for new public school facilities shall  be a coordinated process between
the affected public school districts and the local  government that has the authority to approve the
urban growth boundary[ ;].
(b) Amend  its comprehensive plan, regional framework plan, functional plan or land use regu-
lations to include new measures that demonstrably increase  the likelihood that residential develop-
ment will occur at densities sufficient to accommodate housing needs for the next 20 years without
expansion of the urban growth  boundary. A local government or metropolitan service district that
takes this  action shall [ monitor and record the level of development activity and development density
by housing type following the date of the adoption of the new measures; or ] adopt findings regarding
the density expectations  assumed to result from measures adopted under this paragraph
based upon the factors listed in ORS 197.303 (2) and data in subsection (5)(a) of  this section.
The density expectations may not project an increase  in residential capacity above achieved
density by more than three percent  without quantifiable validation of such departures. For
a local  government located outside of a metropolitan service district, a quantifiable vali-
Enrolled House Bill 2001 (HB 2001-B) Page 4
dation must  demonstrate that the assumed housing capacity has been achieved in areas that
are zoned to allow no greater than the same authorized density level within the local juris-
diction or a jurisdiction in the same region. For a metropolitan service district, a quantifiable
validation must demonstrate that the assumed housing capacity has been achieved in  areas
that are zoned to allow no greater than the same authorized density level within  the met-
ropolitan service district.
[(c) Adopt a combination of the actions described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this subsection. ]
(c) As used in this subsection, “authorized  density level” has the meaning given that
term in ORS 227.175.
(7) Using the housing need analysis conducted under subsection (3)(b) of this  section, the local
government shall determine the overall average density and overall mix of housing types at which
residential development of needed housing types must occur  in order to meet housing needs over the
next 20  years. If that density is greater than the actual density of development determined under
subsection (5)(a)(A) of this section, or if that mix is different from the actual mix of  housing types
determined under subsection (5)(a)(A) of this section, the local government, as part of its  periodic
review, shall adopt  measures that demonstrably increase the likelihood that residential development
will occur  at the housing types and density and at the mix of housing types required to meet housing
needs over the next 20 years.
(8)(a) A local  government outside a metropolitan service district that takes any actions under
subsection (6) or (7) of this section shall demonstrate that the  comprehensive plan and land use
regulations comply with  goals and rules adopted by the commission and implement ORS 197.295 to
197.314.
(b) [ The] A  local  government shall determine the density and mix of housing types anticipated
as a result of actions taken  under subsections (6) and (7) of this section and monitor and record the
actual density  and mix of housing types achieved  following the adoption of these actions . The
local government shall compare actual and anticipated density and  mix. The local government shall
submit its comparison to the commission at the next periodic  review or at the next legislative re-
view of its urban growth boundary, whichever comes first.
(9) In establishing that actions and measures adopted under subsections (6) and (7) of this sec-
tion demonstrably increase the likelihood of higher density residential  development, the local gov-
ernment shall at a minimum ensure that land zoned for needed housing is in locations  appropriate
for the housing types  identified under subsection (3) of this section , [and] is zoned at density ranges
that are likely to be achieved by the housing market using the analysis in subsection (3) of this
section and is in areas where  sufficient urban services are planned to enable the higher
density development to occur over  the 20-year period . Actions or measures, or both, may in-
clude but are not limited to:
(a) Increases in the permitted density on existing residential land;
(b) Financial incentives for higher density housing;
(c) Provisions permitting additional density beyond that generally allowed  in the zoning district
in exchange for amenities and features provided by the developer;
(d) Removal or easing of approval standards or procedures;
(e) Minimum density ranges;
(f) Redevelopment and infill strategies;
(g) Authorization of housing types not previously allowed by the plan or regulations;
(h) Adoption of an average residential density standard; and
(i) Rezoning or redesignation of nonresidential land.
(10)(a) The provisions of this subsection apply to local government comprehensive plans for
lands within the urban growth boundary of a city that is located outside of  a metropolitan service
district and has a population of less than 25,000.
(b) At periodic review pursuant to ORS 197.628 to 197.651 or at any  other legislative review of
the comprehensive  plan that requires the application of a statewide planning goal relating to
buildable lands for residential use, a city shall, according to rules of the commission:
Enrolled House Bill 2001 (HB 2001-B) Page 5
(A) Determine the estimated housing needs within the jurisdiction for the next 20 years;
(B) Inventory the supply of buildable lands  available within the urban growth boundary to ac-
commodate the estimated housing needs determined under this subsection; and
(C) Adopt measures necessary to accommodate the estimated housing  needs determined under
this subsection.
(c) For the  purpose of the inventory described in this subsection, “buildable lands” includes
those lands described in subsection (4)(a) of this section.
SECTION 6.
 ORS 197.303 is amended to read:
197.303. (1) As used in ORS [ 197.307] 197.295 to 197.314 , “needed housing” means all housing
on land zoned for  residential use or mixed residential and commercial use that is determined to meet
the need shown for housing within an urban growth boundary at price ranges and rent  levels that
are affordable to households within the county with a variety of  incomes, including but not limited
to households with low incomes, very  low incomes and extremely low incomes, as those terms are
defined by the  United States Department of Housing and Urban Development under 42 U.S.C. 1437a.
“Needed housing” includes the following housing types:
(a) Attached and  detached single-family housing and multiple family housing for both owner and
renter occupancy;
(b) Government assisted housing;
(c) Mobile home or manufactured dwelling parks as provided in ORS 197.475 to 197.490;
(d) Manufactured homes on individual lots planned and  zoned for single-family residential use
that are in addition to lots within designated manufactured dwelling subdivisions; and
(e) Housing for farmworkers.
(2) For  the purpose of estimating housing needs, as described in ORS 197.296 (3)(b), a lo-
cal government shall use the  population projections prescribed by ORS 195.033 or 195.036 and
shall consider and adopt findings related to changes in  each of the following factors since the
last periodic or legislative review or six years, whichever is greater, and the  projected future
changes in these factors over a 20-year planning period:
(a) Household sizes;
(b) Household demographics in terms of  age, gender, race or other established demo-
graphic category;
(c) Household incomes;
(d) Vacancy rates; and
(e) Housing costs.
(3) A local government shall make the estimate described  in subsection (2) of this section
using a shorter time period than since the last periodic or legislative review or six  years,
whichever is greater, if the local government finds that the shorter time  period will provide
more accurate and reliable  data related to housing need. The shorter time period may not
be less than three years.
(4) A local government shall use data from a wider geographic area or use a  time period
longer than the time period described in subsection (2) of this section if the analysis of  a
wider geographic area or the use of a longer time period will provide more accurate, com-
plete and reliable data relating to  trends affecting housing need than an analysis performed
pursuant to subsection (2) of this section.  The local government must clearly describe the
geographic area, time frame and  source of data used in an estimate performed under this
subsection.
[(2)] (5) Subsection (1)(a) and (d) of this section does not apply to:
(a) A city with a population of less than 2,500.
(b) A county with a population of less than 15,000.
[(3)] (6) A  local government may take an exception under ORS 197.732 to the definition of
“needed housing” in subsection (1) of this section in the same manner that an exception may be
taken under the goals.
Enrolled House Bill 2001 (HB 2001-B) Page 6
SECTION 7.  ORS 197.312, as amended by section 7, chapter 15, Oregon Laws 2018,  is amended
to read:
197.312. (1)  A city or county may not by charter prohibit from all residential zones attached or
detached  single-family  housing, multifamily housing for both owner and renter occupancy or manu-
factured homes. A city or county may not by charter prohibit government assisted housing or impose
additional approval standards on government assisted housing that are not  applied to similar but
unassisted housing.
(2)(a) A single-family dwelling for a farmworker and the farmworker’s immediate  family is a
permitted use in any residential or commercial zone that allows single-family dwellings as a per-
mitted use.
(b) A city  or county may not impose a zoning requirement on the establishment and maintenance
of a single-family dwelling for a farmworker and the farmworker’s immediate family  in a residential
or commercial zone described in paragraph (a) of this subsection  that is more restrictive than a
zoning requirement imposed on other single-family dwellings in the same zone.
(3)(a) Multifamily housing for farmworkers  and farmworkers’ immediate families is a permitted
use in any residential or commercial zone that allows multifamily housing  generally as a permitted
use.
(b) A city  or county may not impose a zoning requirement on the establishment and maintenance
of multifamily housing for  farmworkers and farmworkers’ immediate families in a residential or
commercial zone described in  paragraph (a) of this subsection that is more restrictive than a zoning
requirement imposed on other multifamily housing in the same zone.
(4) A city or county may not prohibit a property owner or developer from maintaining a  real
estate sales office in a subdivision or planned community containing more  than 50 lots or dwelling
units for the sale of lots or dwelling units that remain available for sale to the public.
(5)(a) A  city with a population greater than 2,500 or a county with a population greater than
15,000 shall allow in  areas within the urban growth boundary that are zoned for detached single-
family dwellings the development of at least one accessory dwelling unit  for each detached single-
family dwelling, subject to reasonable local regulations relating to siting and design.
(b) As used in this subsection[ ,]:
(A) “Accessory dwelling  unit” means an interior, attached or detached residential structure that
is used in connection with or that is accessory to a single-family dwelling.
(B) “Reasonable local regulations relating  to siting and design” does not include owner-
occupancy requirements of either the primary or accessory structure  or requirements to
construct additional off-street parking.
(6) Subsection (5) of this  section does not prohibit local governments from regulating
vacation occupancies, as defined in ORS  90.100, to require owner-occupancy or off-street
parking.
SECTION 8.
 Section 1, chapter 47, Oregon Laws 2018, is amended to read:
Sec. 1.  (1) For purposes of this section:
(a) A household is severely rent burdened if the household spends  more than 50 percent of the
income of the household on gross rent for housing.
(b) A regulated affordable unit is a residential unit subject to  a regulatory agreement that runs
with the land and that requires affordability for an established income level for a  defined period of
time.
[(c) A single-family unit  may be rented or owned by a household and includes single-family homes,
duplexes, townhomes, row homes and mobile homes. ]
(2)(a) The Housing and Community Services Department shall annually provide to the  governing
body of each city in this state with a population greater than 10,000 the  most current data available
from the United States Census Bureau, or any other source the  department considers at least as
reliable, showing the percentage of renter households in the city that are severely rent burdened.
(b) The Housing and Community  Services Department, in collaboration with the Department of
Land Conservation and Development, shall develop a  survey form on which the governing body of
Enrolled House Bill 2001 (HB 2001-B) Page 7
a city may provide specific information related to the  affordability of housing within the city, in-
cluding, but not limited to:
(A) The  actions relating to land use and other related matters that the governing body has
taken to increase  the affordability of housing and reduce rent burdens for severely rent burdened
households; and
(B) The additional actions the governing body intends to take to reduce rent burdens for  se-
verely rent burdened households.
(c) If the Housing and Community  Services Department determines that at least 25 percent of
the renter households in a city are severely rent burdened, the department shall provide the  gov-
erning body of the city with the survey form developed pursuant to paragraph (b) of this subsection.
(d) The governing body of the city shall return the completed survey form to the  Housing and
Community Services Department and the Department of Land Conservation and  Development within
60 days of receipt.
(3)(a) In any year in which the governing body of a city is informed under this section  that at
least 25 percent of the renter households in the city are severely rent burdened, the governing body
shall hold at least one public meeting  to discuss the causes and consequences of severe rent burdens
within the city, the barriers to reducing rent burdens and possible solutions.
(b) The Housing and Community Services Department may  adopt rules governing the conduct
of the public meeting required under this subsection.
(4) No later than February  1 of each year, the governing body of each city in this state with a
population greater than 10,000 shall submit to the Department  of Land Conservation and Develop-
ment a report for the immediately preceding calendar year setting forth separately for each  of the
following categories the total number of  units that were permitted and the total number that were
produced:
(a) Residential units.
(b) Regulated affordable residential units.
(c) Multifamily residential units.
(d) Regulated affordable multifamily residential units.
(e) Single-family [ units] homes .
(f) Regulated affordable single-family [ units] homes .
(g) Accessory dwelling units.
(h) Regulated affordable accessory dwelling units.
(i) Units of middle housing, as defined in section 2 of this 2019 Act.
(j) Regulated affordable units of middle housing.
SECTION 9.
 ORS 455.610 is amended to read:
455.610. (1) The  Director of the Department of Consumer and Business Services shall adopt, and
amend as necessary, a Low-Rise Residential Dwelling Code that contains all requirements,  including
structural design provisions, related to the construction of residential dwellings  three stories or less
above grade. The code provisions for plumbing  and electrical requirements must be compatible with
other specialty codes adopted by the director. The Electrical and Elevator  Board, the Mechanical
Board and the  State Plumbing Board shall review, respectively, amendments to the electrical, me-
chanical or plumbing provisions of the code.
(2) Changes or amendments to the code adopted under subsection (1) of this section may be made
when:
(a) Required by geographic or climatic conditions unique to Oregon;
(b) Necessary to be compatible with other statutory provisions;
(c) Changes to the national codes are adopted in Oregon; or
(d) Necessary to authorize  the use of building materials and techniques that are consistent with
nationally recognized standards and building practices.
(3) Notwithstanding ORS 455.030, 455.035, 455.110  and 455.112, the director may, at any time
following appropriate consultation with the Mechanical Board  or Building Codes Structures Board,
Enrolled House Bill 2001 (HB 2001-B) Page 8
amend the mechanical specialty code  or structural specialty code to ensure compatibility with the
Low-Rise Residential Dwelling Code.
(4) The water conservation provisions for toilets, urinals,  shower heads and interior faucets
adopted in  the Low-Rise Residential Dwelling Code shall be the same as those adopted under ORS
447.020 to meet the requirements of ORS 447.145.
(5) The Low-Rise Residential Dwelling  Code shall be adopted and amended as provided by ORS
455.030 and 455.110.
(6) The director, by rule, shall establish uniform standards for a municipality to  allow an alter-
nate method of construction  to the requirements for one and two family dwellings built to the
Low-Rise Residential Dwelling Code in areas where the local jurisdiction determines that the fire
apparatus means of approach to a property or water supply serving a property does not meet ap-
plicable fire code or state building code requirements. The alternate method  of construction, which
may include  but is not limited to the installation of automatic fire sprinkler systems, must be ap-
proved in conjunction with the approval of an application under ORS 197.522.
(7) For lots of record existing before July 2, 2001, or property that  receives any approval for
partition, subdivision or construction under ORS 197.522 before  July 2, 2001, a municipality allowing
an alternate method of construction to  the requirements for one and two family dwellings built to
the Low-Rise Residential Dwelling  Code may apply the uniform standards established by the director
pursuant to subsection  (6) of this section. For property that receives all approvals for partition,
subdivision or construction under ORS 197.522 on or after July 2,  2001, a municipality allowing an
alternate method of construction to the requirements  for one and two family dwellings built to the
Low-Rise Residential Dwelling  Code must apply the uniform standards established by the director
pursuant to subsection (6) of this section.
(8) The director, by rule, shall establish uniform standards for a municipality  to allow
alternate approval of construction  related to conversions of single-family dwellings into no
more than  four residential dwelling units built to the Low-Rise Residential Dwelling Code
that received occupancy  approval prior to January 1, 2020. The standards established under
this subsection must include standards  describing the information that must be submitted
before an application for alternate approval will be deemed complete.
(9)(a) A building official  described in ORS 455.148 or 455.150 must approve or deny an
application for alternate approval under  subsection (8) of this section no later than 15 busi-
ness days after receiving a complete application.
(b) A building  official who denies an application for alternate approval under this sub-
section shall provide to the applicant:
(A) A written explanation of the basis for the denial; and
(B) A statement that  describes the applicant’s appeal rights under subsection (10) of this
section.
(10)(a) An appeal from a denial under subsection (9) of this section must be made through
a municipal administrative process.  A municipality shall provide an administrative process
that:
(A) Is other than a judicial proceeding in a court of law; and
(B) Affords the party  an opportunity to appeal the denial before an individual, depart-
ment or body that is other than a plan reviewer, inspector  or building official for the
municipality.
(b) A decision in an administrative process under this subsection must be completed no
later than 30 business days after the building official receives notice of the appeal.
(c) Notwithstanding ORS 455.690, a municipal administrative process required  under this
subsection is the exclusive means for appealing a denial under subsection (9)  of this section.
(11) The costs incurred  by a municipality under subsections (9) and (10) of this section
are building inspection program administration and enforcement costs for the purpose of fee
adoption under ORS 455.210.
Enrolled House Bill 2001 (HB 2001-B) Page 9
SECTION 10. (1) It is the policy of the State of Oregon to reduce to the extent practicable
administrative and permitting costs and barriers to the construction of middle housing,  as
defined in section 2 of  this 2019 Act, while maintaining safety, public health and the general
welfare with respect to construction and occupancy.
(2) The  Department of Consumer and Business Services shall submit a report describing
rules and standards relating to low-rise residential dwellings proposed  under ORS 455.610, as
amended by section 9 of this 2019 Act, in the manner provided in ORS 192.245, to an  interim
committee of the Legislative Assembly related to housing no later than January 1, 2020.
SECTION 11. Section 12 of this 2019 Act is added to and made  a part of ORS 94.550 to
94.783.
SECTION 12. A provision in a governing document that is adopted or amended on or after
the effective date of this 2019  Act, is void and unenforceable to the extent that the provision
would prohibit or have the effect of unreasonably restricting the development of housing that
is otherwise allowable under the maximum density of the zoning for the land.
SECTION 13. A provision in a recorded instrument affecting real property is not  en-
forceable if:
(1) The provision would allow the  development of a single-family dwelling on the real
property but would prohibit the development of:
(a) Middle housing, as defined in section 2 of this 2019 Act; or
(b) An accessory dwelling unit allowed under ORS 197.312 (5); and
(2) The instrument was executed on or after the effective date of this 2019 Act.
SECTION 14.
(1) Sections 2, 12 and 13 of this 2019 Act and the amendments to ORS
197.296, 197.303, 197.312 and 455.610 and section 1, chapter 47, Oregon Laws 2018, by sections
5 to 9 of this 2019 Act become operative on January 1, 2020.
(2) The Land Conservation and Development Commission,  the Department of Consumer
and Business Services and the Residential and Manufactured Structures Board  may take any
actions before the operative date specified in subsection (1) of this section necessary to en-
able the commission, department or board to exercise, on or after the  operative date speci-
fied in subsection (1) of this section, the duties required under sections 2, 3 and 10  of this
2019 Act and the amendments to ORS 455.610 by section 9 of this 2019 Act.
SECTION 15. In addition to and not in lieu of any  other appropriation, there is appro-
priated to the Department of Land Conservation  and Development, for the biennium begin-
ning July 1, 2019, out of the General Fund, the amount of $3,500,000  for the purpose of
providing technical assistance to local governments in implementing section 3 (1)  of this 2019
Act and to develop plans to improve water,  sewer, storm drainage and transportation ser-
vices as described in section  4 (2) of this 2019 Act. The department shall prioritize technical
assistance to cities or counties with limited planning staff or that commit  to implementation
earlier than the date required under section 3 (1) of this 2019 Act.
SECTION 16. This 2019 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation  of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist, and  this 2019 Act takes effect
on its passage.
Enrolled House Bill 2001 (HB 2001-B) Page 10
Passed by House June 20, 2019
..................................................................................
Timothy G. Sekerak, Chief Clerk of House
..................................................................................
Tina Kotek, Speaker of House
Passed by Senate June 30, 2019
..................................................................................
Peter Courtney, President of Senate
Received by Governor:
........................M.,........................................................., 2019
Approved:
........................M.,........................................................., 2019
..................................................................................
Kate Brown, Governor
Filed in Office of Secretary of State:
........................M.,........................................................., 2019
..................................................................................
Bev Clarno, Secretary of State
Enrolled House Bill 2001 (HB 2001-B) Page 11