81st OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2021 Regular Session
Enrolled
House Bill 2266
Sponsored by Representative LIVELY; Representatives BYNUM, CAMPOS, DEXTER, GOMBERG,
GRAYBER, KROPF, MEEK, NERON, PRUSAK, RUIZ, SOLLMAN,  WILLIAMS (Presession
filed.)
CHAPTER .................................................
AN ACT
Relating to business assistance; and declaring an emergency.
Whereas Oregonians are committed to dismantling historic systemic  barriers and investing in
our economy and our people and future generations as it  relates to accessible capital for all com-
munities of color and underserved businesses; and
Whereas it is the intention of this legislation to begin to bridge the gap of the economic ineq-
uities in historically underserved and marginalized communities; and
Whereas Oregon’s small businesses are the backbone of our economy, which  includes many
Black, Indigenous, Latino, Latina, Latinx, Asian, Pacific Islander,  Native American and tribal com-
munities throughout the state; and
Whereas the Racial Justice Council’s priority  is to promote economic development and
empowerment through grounding racial justice and  providing access to capital specifically for
minority-owned businesses and underserved entrepreneurs that will result in  building equitable ac-
cess to capital and reduce  barriers of collateral requirements in efforts to enable mobility and op-
portunity towards a safe, secure and resilient quality of life in Oregon; now, therefore,
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
Purpose. It is the purpose of sections  1 to 7 of this 2021 Act that the State
of Oregon shall make awards to qualified lending institutions to fund lenders’ loan  loss re-
serve accounts for the purpose of increasing lending  to business owners and entrepreneurs
who currently lack access to capital to start or grow their businesses.
SECTION 2. Definitions. As used in sections 1 to 7 of this 2021 Act,  unless the context
requires otherwise:
(1) “Loan loss reserve account” or “account” means an account created by a lender for
the deposit of moneys awarded to the lender under section 3 of this 2021 Act out of  which
the lender may reimburse itself for losses incurred due to defaults on qualified loans.
(2) “Prime rate” means the primary  credit rate of the discount window program of the
United States Federal Reserve System.
(3) “Qualified business” or “qualified borrower” means a person that:
(a) Operates a business in Oregon; or
(b) Attests to a qualified lender that the person will use  proceeds from a qualified loan
to establish a business in Oregon.
(4) “Qualified lender” means a lender that:
Enrolled House Bill 2266 (HB 2266-B) Page 1
(a) Is certified  as a community development financial institution by the Community De-
velopment Financial Institutions Fund at the United States Department of the Treasury;
(b) Is a nonprofit corporation as defined in ORS 307.130;
(c) Is an economic development district in Oregon designated by  the Economic Develop-
ment Administration of the United States Department of Commerce;
(d) Is affiliated with a local government as defined in ORS 174.116; and
(e) Has a physical presence in Oregon and at least five years of lending experience.
(5)(a) “Qualified loan” means a loan made, or an operating  line of credit extended, by a
lender to a qualified business for which the principal losses are reimbursable from  moneys
in the lender’s loan loss reserve account.
(b) “Qualified loan” does not mean a loan:
(A) With a variable interest rate.
(B) With an  origination fee that exceeds 1.5 percent, and with an annual interest rate
that exceeds the lesser of 18 percent or the prime rate plus 7 percent.
(C) For working capital for a term exceeding seven years.
(D) For capital assets for a term exceeding the useful life of the assets.
(E) That includes, in  whole or in part, the refinancing of an existing loan made by the
lender to the borrower.
(F) That includes, in whole or in part, the refinancing of  an existing personal loan not
used for business purposes.
(G) For the purchase of real property that is not used for the  business operations of the
borrower.
(H) For the purchase of owner-occupied residential housing or for the construction,  im-
provement or purchase of residential housing owned or to be owned by the borrower.
(6) “RFP” means a request for proposal.
SECTION 3.
RFP process for  awards to lenders; lender requirements; approval criteria.
(1)(a) The Oregon Business Development Department shall, in accordance  with this section,
make awards to lenders to fund the lenders’ loan loss reserve accounts.
(b) The awards shall be made, through a  competitive RFP process administered by the
department.
(c) Of the moneys awarded as a result  of any RFP process, not more than 10 percent of
available funds may be awarded to any single lender.
(2) The department shall evaluate proposals according to the following criteria:
(a) The number and value of loans closed by the lender during the five-year period im-
mediately preceding the date of submission of the lender’s proposal;
(b) The  projected loan production over the performance period of the award, including
the projected number of  loans, the proposed principal amount of qualified loans that the
lender would not make but for the moneys awarded, and the jobs to be created  and retained
by qualified borrowers;
(c) How the award would increase the lender’s capacity to make loans to  rural or
underserved entrepreneurs;
(d) The past performance of loans made by the lender;
(e) The extent to which the lender:
(A) Provides technical assistance and financial literacy  services to underserved borrow-
ers; or
(B) Partners with  providers of technical assistance and financial literacy services to
underserved borrowers;
(f) How the lender’s proposed outreach, application  process, underwriting criteria and
loan terms are designed to reduce historic barriers to borrowers’ access to loan capital;
(g) How the lender plans to ensure that the loans originated by the lender under the
program are made to borrowers in regionally diverse and rural areas of this state; and
Enrolled House Bill 2266 (HB 2266-B) Page 2
(h) Any other criteria the department considers necessary or useful for evaluating  a
proposal.
(3)(a) After reviewing proposals submitted in response  to an RFP, the department shall
reject or accept proposals and determine the amount awarded for each accepted proposal.
(b) As soon as practicable after the awards are  finalized, the department shall notify the
lenders that submitted proposals of the results  and offer the awards to the lenders whose
proposals are accepted.
SECTION 4. Agreements  with lenders; terms.  (1) The Oregon Business Development De-
partment shall enter into a written agreement with each lender that  accepts an award of-
fered under section 3 of this 2021 Act.
(2) A written agreement entered into pursuant to this section must:
(a) Provide for the creation of a loan loss reserve account by the lender for the  deposit
of moneys awarded under section 3 of this 2021 Act out  of which the lender may be reim-
bursed for principal losses incurred due to defaults on qualified loans;
(b) Provide that, notwithstanding ORS chapter 293 or 295, the lender shall  establish and
maintain the loan loss reserve account with a financial  institution, as defined in ORS 706.008,
in accordance with such policies as the department may adopt;
(c) Require the lender to designate, when a loan is made, whether the loan is a  qualified
loan;
(d) Provide that, upon default on a qualified  loan, the lender shall, subject to subsection
(3) of this section, liquidate the borrower’s assets and exhaust all lawful remedies for the
benefit of the lender before the  lender may recover the outstanding principal balance of the
loan from the lender’s loan loss reserve account;
(e) Provide that the liability  of the State of Oregon and the department under the written
agreement is limited to the amount of moneys awarded and credited to the lender’s loan  loss
reserve account; and
(f) Require the lender to file an annual report in  accordance with section 5 of this 2021
Act.
(3)(a) Notwithstanding the requirement under subsection (2)(d) of this section to liquidate
a borrower’s assets and exhaust all lawful remedies, the department, upon request of  a
lender, may waive the lender’s obligations under subsection (2)(d) of this section if:
(A) The original principal amount of the loan was not greater than $25,000; and
(B) The borrower had a personal net worth  not greater than $75,000 at both the time of
application and the time of default.
(b) A lender that does not comply  with subsection (2)(d) of this section or paragraph (a)
of this subsection shall  be considered to have breached the written agreement the lender
entered into pursuant to subsection (1) of this section. The department, at its sole discretion,
may take assignment  of the loan and pursue collection efforts under subsection (2)(d) of this
section.
(4) Qualified lenders that accept awards under section 3  of this 2021 Act shall, within 10
years following the date on which the written  agreement entered into pursuant to subsection
(1) of this  section becomes binding, originate qualified loans with a total principal amount
equal to at least four times the amount of the moneys awarded.
SECTION 5.
Annual reporting by lenders.  (1) Not later than July 31 of each year, each
lender awarded moneys under section 3 of this 2021 Act shall, during the term of the written
agreement entered into under section 4 of this  2021 Act, provide a report to the Oregon
Business Development  Department, on a form prescribed by the department, for the period
beginning on July 1 of the immediately preceding year and ending on June 30 of  the current
year.
(2) With  respect to qualified loans made by the lender, the report shall include, but not
be limited to, the following information:
(a) The number and total principal amount of all qualified loans made by the lender;
Enrolled House Bill 2266 (HB 2266-B) Page 3
(b) For each qualified loan, the following information:
(A) The term and amortization of the loan; and
(B) The purpose of the loan;
(c) The number of loans that  were declined and the primary reasons for declining them;
and
(d) Any other information required under rules adopted by the department.
(3) With respect to qualified borrowers, the report shall set forth:
(a) The businesses that qualified borrowers conduct in this state;
(b) The cities and counties in which qualified borrowers use the qualified loan proceeds;
(c) The number of individuals employed by the qualified businesses;
(d) Demographic data voluntarily reported by qualified borrowers, including, but not
limited to, whether a qualified business is owned by a woman, a  minority individual, a vet-
eran of any branch of the Armed Forces of the United States, the National Guard  or other
reserve component, a low income person or a person operating the  business in a rural area
of this state; and
(e) Outreach conducted by the lender to rural and underserved communities.
(4) The department may  require any lender to include in the report financial information
that is identifiable with, or from, the financial records of a borrower.
SECTION 6.
Release; repayment.  (1)(a) A lender shall be released from any  obligation
under a written agreement entered into under  section 4 of this 2021 Act, and may use for
any purpose whatever any balance in the lender’s loan loss reserve  account, if the lender
has:
(A) Performed under the  written agreement entered into with the Oregon Business De-
velopment Department for at least 10 years;
(B) Attained during the 10-year period, as required under  section 4 (3) of this 2021 Act,
a ratio of four-to-one of total principal amount of qualified loans made by the  lender to the
amount of moneys awarded to the lender under section 3 of this 2021 Act; and
(C) Complied with the annual reporting requirements under section 5 of this 2021 Act.
(b) A release under this section does not absolve  a lender of any contractual obligations
owed to a qualified borrower under a qualified loan agreement.
(2) A lender shall repay to the department for deposit in  the General Fund the balance
of moneys awarded to the lender under section 3 of this 2021 Act in  the lender’s loan loss
reserve account if the department determines that:
(a) The lender has not made a qualified loan for 24 consecutive months;
(b) The lender has become insolvent or has ceased lending operations in Oregon;
(c) The lender has failed to perform in any  material way under the written agreement
entered into with the department pursuant to section 4 of this 2021 Act;
(d) The lender made material  misrepresentations in the RFP submitted under section 3
of this 2021 Act or in an annual report required under section 5 of this 2021 Act; or
(e) The lender or the lender’s loan loss  reserve account portfolio has been sold, trans-
ferred or assigned, in whole or part.
SECTION 7.
Biennial report by the Oregon Business  Development Department.  On or
before September  15 of each even-numbered year, the Oregon Business Development De-
partment shall submit, in the  manner required under ORS 192.245, to the interim committees
of the Legislative Assembly  related to economic development, a report that sets forth the
following information:
(1) The number  and total dollar amount of RFPs received under section 3 of this 2021
Act;
(2) The number of  awards and the amount of moneys awarded under section 3 of this 2021
Act;
(3) Information described in section 3 (2)(b) of this 2021 Act from the  approved proposals;
Enrolled House Bill 2266 (HB 2266-B) Page 4
(4) Aggregated lender and qualified  borrower data, including demographic data reported
by lenders under section 5 (3)(d) of this 2021 Act;
(5) The aggregate performance of qualified loans;
(6) The average interest rate, term and amount of qualified loans;
(7) The  cities and counties in which qualified borrowers use the qualified loan proceeds;
and
(8) Any other information the department considers necessary or useful to include in  the
report.
SECTION 8.
Appropriation. There is appropriated  to the Oregon Business Development
Department, for the biennium beginning July 1, 2021, out  of the General Fund, the amount
of $10,000,000, for the purpose of implementing sections 1 to 7 of this 2021 Act.
SECTION 9. Program evaluation; recommendations.  (1) Not later than September 15,
2029, the interim  committees of the Legislative Assembly related to economic development
shall evaluate the effectiveness of the lenders’ loan  loss reserve account program established
under sections 1 to 7 of this 2021  Act and develop recommendations for legislation, including
appropriations.
(2) In making the evaluation under subsection (1) of this section, the interim  committees
shall:
(a) Consult  with the Oregon Business Development Department and with lenders that
have entered into written agreements with the department under section 4 of this 2021  Act
and made qualified loans and with any  other persons the interim committees consider nec-
essary or useful; and
(b) Consider the biennial reports submitted by the department  under section 7 of this
2021 Act and any other information the interim committees consider necessary or useful.
SECTION 10. Section captions.  The section captions used  in this 2021 Act are provided
only for the convenience of the  reader and do not become part of the statutory law of this
state or express any legislative intent in the enactment of this 2021 Act.
SECTION 11. As used in sections 11 to 15 of this 2021 Act:
(1) “Eligible business” means one of the following businesses  as defined in ORS 200.005
that is operated for  profit and has been certified by the Certification Office for Business
Inclusion and Diversity under ORS 200.055 at the  time an application is referred on behalf
of the business to  the Oregon Business Development Department under section 13 of this
2021 Act:
(a) A disadvantaged business enterprise;
(b) A minority-owned business;
(c) A woman-owned business;
(d) A business that a service-disabled veteran owns; or
(e) An emerging small business.
(2) “Prime rate” means the primary  credit rate of the discount window program of the
United States Federal Reserve System.
(3) “Technical assistance  provider” means a small business development center estab-
lished under ORS 285B.165 to 285B.171 or a  culturally specific business association or cham-
ber that provides one-on-one business counseling services.
SECTION 12.
(1) The Oregon Business Development  Department shall develop and im-
plement a program to make loans to eligible businesses.
(2) Loans made under the program may be for the following amounts:
(a) For eligible businesses that have operated for less than two years, up to $100,000.
(b) For eligible businesses that have operated for two years or more, up to $250,000.
(3)(a) The term of a loan may not exceed 10 years.
(b)(A) Interest on a loan shall be charged at the prime rate plus two percent.
(B) Notwithstanding subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, the  rate of interest may be in-
creased for risk based on the loan-to-value ratio.
Enrolled House Bill 2266 (HB 2266-B) Page 5
(c) Loans shall be subject to business underwriting standards  used in secondary markets.
(d) To the extent possible, loans must be secured by business and personal assets.
(e) Loans  shall require standard commercial loan documentation, including reasonable
provisions related to default that the department may adopt by rule.
(4) An eligible business  may use the proceeds of a loan made pursuant to this section for
equipment, inventory, fixtures and working capital  or other business-related expenses other
than capital costs.
SECTION 13.
(1) The Oregon Business Development Department shall prescribe the form
and manner in which the owner of an eligible business may apply for a loan under  the loan
program developed and implemented under section 12 of this 2021 Act.
(2) The application must, at a minimum, require the inclusion of:
(a) Documentation showing that the business for which application is made is  an eligible
business;
(b) A nonrefundable application fee of $200; and
(c) Any other information or documentation the department requires.
(3)(a) The owner of an eligible business interested in applying for a  loan under the loan
program must seek assistance from a technical assistance provider.
(b) The technical assistance must include a review of the application form  and associated
documents and other materials for completeness and accuracy.
(4)(a) If a technical assistance provider determines in its sole discretion  that the appli-
cation of an eligible business is complete and accurate and deserves consideration by the
department, the provider shall refer the application to the department.
(b) If a technical assistance provider refers an application under  this section that is ap-
proved by the department, the department shall request  periodic reports from the provider
on the status of the eligible business after receipt of the loan proceeds.
(c) If a technical assistance provider determines that an application is not complete or
accurate or does not deserve to be referred to the department  for consideration in its pres-
ent form, the technical assistance provider  may, in its sole discretion, work with the owner
of the eligible business to amend the application and application materials.
(d) The refusal of a technical assistance provider to refer an application to the depart-
ment under this section does not give rise to a cause of action of any kind.
(5)(a) After receiving an application referred  under this section, the department shall
either approve or reject the application  and notify the applicant and the technical assistance
provider that worked with the applicant of the decision.
(b)(A) Rejection of the application by the department  may be appealed through a process
adopted by the department by rule.
(B) The owner of an eligible business whose application has been finally rejected with  no
further right of appeal may contact a technical  assistance provider to begin a new applica-
tion process at any time.
(c) If the  department approves the application, the department shall offer a loan agree-
ment to the eligible business on terms  that do not conflict with sections 11 to 15 of this 2021
Act.
(6) Upon execution of a loan agreement offered pursuant to subsection (5)(c) of this  sec-
tion:
(a) All third-party expenses that are necessary to close the loan shall be paid:
(A) By the eligible business; or
(B) At the sole discretion of the department, out of the loan proceeds.
(b) Upon payment of third-party  expenses under paragraph (a) of this subsection, the
department shall pay the  balance of the loan proceeds to the eligible business out of funds
in the Disadvantaged and Emerging Small Business Loan Fund established under section  14
of this 2021 Act.
Enrolled House Bill 2266 (HB 2266-B) Page 6
SECTION 14. (1) There is  established in the State Treasury, separate and distinct from
the General Fund, the Disadvantaged and Emerging Small Business Loan Fund. All moneys
in the fund are continuously appropriated to  the Oregon Business Development Department
for the purposes of:
(a) Paying the actual costs of the department  in administering the loan program devel-
oped and implemented under sections 11 to 15 of this 2021 Act; and
(b) Making loans  under the loan program developed and implemented under sections 11
to 15 of this 2021 Act.
(2) The Disadvantaged and Emerging Small Business Loan Fund shall consist of:
(a) Moneys  appropriated or otherwise allocated or transferred to the fund by the Legis-
lative Assembly;
(b) Interest earned on moneys in the fund;
(c) Moneys received as repayment of principal and interest on loans made from  the fund
under sections 11 to 15 of this 2021 Act; and
(d) Moneys or property of any kind received by the department for deposit  in the fund
from any source.
SECTION 15.
(1) On or before September 15  of each year, the Oregon Business Develop-
ment Department shall submit, in the manner provided in ORS 192.245, to the  interim legis-
lative committees related to economic development, a report containing the  following
information about the loan program developed and implemented  under sections 11 to 15 of
this 2021 Act:
(a) The number of loans made;
(b) The amounts of the loans made;
(c) Demographic information  about the eligible businesses that received loans that is
voluntarily given to the department;
(d) The number of referrals from technical  assistance providers under section 13 of this
2021 Act;
(e) The number of loan  applications that were rejected and the reasons for the rejections;
(f) Demographic information  about the eligible businesses whose applications were re-
jected that is voluntarily given to the department; and
(g) Any other information the department considers significant in evaluating the loan
program.
(2) The report may include information from periodic reports provided to the department
by technical assistance providers under section 13 (4)(b) of this 2021 Act.
SECTION 16.
There is appropriated to the Oregon Business Development Department, for
the biennium beginning July 1, 2021, out of the General  Fund, the amount of $10 million for
deposit in the Disadvantaged and Emerging  Small Business Loan Fund established in section
14 of this 2021 Act, for the purpose of carrying  out the provisions of sections 11 to 15 of this
2021 Act.
SECTION 17. This 2021 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation  of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist, and  this 2021 Act takes effect
on its passage.
Enrolled House Bill 2266 (HB 2266-B) Page 7
Passed by House June 22, 2021
..................................................................................
Timothy G. Sekerak, Chief Clerk of House
..................................................................................
Tina Kotek, Speaker of House
Passed by Senate June 24, 2021
..................................................................................
Peter Courtney, President of Senate
Received by Governor:
........................M.,........................................................., 2021
Approved:
........................M.,........................................................., 2021
..................................................................................
Kate Brown, Governor
Filed in Office of Secretary of State:
........................M.,........................................................., 2021
..................................................................................
Shemia Fagan, Secretary of State
Enrolled House Bill 2266 (HB 2266-B) Page 8