1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2666
Sponsored by Representative EVANS (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act requires each county to have a place to  treat certain people who are in custody
waiting for trial. (Flesch Readability Score: 68.0).
Requires each county to have a facility jointly managed by the sheriff and community  mental
health program director  to house and treat individuals with behavioral health disorders or intellec-
tual or developmental disabilities who are in the custody of the county sheriff pending trial.
Declares an emergency, effective July 1, 2025.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to pretrial detainees; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) Each county must have in operation a facility for the  housing and
treatment of individuals with behavioral health disorders  or intellectual or developmental
disabilities who are in the custody of the county sheriff pending trial. Each facility must have
the capacity to treat all  detainees from the community who are in custody and be staffed
by behavioral health professionals from  the community mental health program and the
sheriff’s deputies. The facility shall be managed by the sheriff in partnership with the com-
munity mental health program director.
(2) If a county does not have a community mental  health program, the Oregon Health
Authority shall provide behavioral health professionals for the facility and partner with the
county sheriff in the management of the facility.
(3) The Oregon Health Authority may adopt rules governing the facilities to  protect the
health and safety of detainees and staff at the facility.
SECTION 2.
In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there is appropri-
ated to the Oregon Health Authority, for the biennium beginning July 1, 2025, out of the
General Fund, the amount of $_______, which shall be distributed to  counties for the con-
struction and maintenance of facilities described in section 1 of this 2025 Act.
SECTION 3.
This 2025 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist,  and this 2025 Act takes effect
July 1, 2025.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 3174