1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 3510
Sponsored by Representative LEVY E, Senator NASH; Senators FREDERICK, LINTHICUM (at the request  of Judy
Trego)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Stops people from using ways of buying up tickets to events that evade a ticket  seller’s
security or limit on the number of tickets a person  can buy. Says that a reseller must have a ticket
before it can sell the ticket. (Flesch Readability Score: 60.6).
Prohibits knowingly or intentionally selling or offering  for sale admission tickets that a person
obtains by using software that is designed to  circumvent, thwart, interfere with or evade a control
or measure, including a security measure or an access control  system, that an operator, ticket seller
or reseller establishes or uses to ensure an equitable distribution, sale or  resale of admission tickets
for an entertainment event.
Prohibits a reseller from selling or offering for resale  an admission ticket unless the reseller has
actual or constructive possession of the admission  ticket and makes certain disclosures before
completing the sale.
Punishes violations of the Act as an unlawful  practice under the Unlawful Trade Practices Act.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to regulating sales of admission tickets  to entertainment events; creating new provisions;
and amending ORS 646A.115.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 646A.115 is amended to read:
646A.115. (1) As used in this section:
(a) “Admission ticket” means evidence of a purchaser’s right of entry to a  venue or an enter-
tainment event.
(b) “Affiliated” means a person’s having control of, being controlled by or under common
control with another person.
[(b)] (c)  “Entertainment  event” means a performance, recreation, amusement, diversion, specta-
cle, show or similar event  including, but not limited to, a theatrical or musical performance, concert,
film, game, ride or sporting event  that occurs in this state .
(d) “Initial sale” means a ticket seller’s first sale of an  admission ticket to a retail pur-
chaser.
[(c)] (e)  “Operator” means a person that owns, operates or controls a venue or that  produces
or promotes an entertainment event, or the person’s agent or employee.
(f) “Promoter” means a  person that organizes financing or publicity for an entertainment
event, or the person’s agent or employee.
[(d)] (g)  “Resale” means a sale other  than  a ticket seller’s or  an operator’s initial sale of an
admission ticket for a venue that is located  in or an entertainment event that occurs in this state,
irrespective of the location  in which the sale occurs or the means by which a reseller solicits or
advertises the sale or delivers or receives payment for the admission ticket.
[(e)] (h)  “Reseller” means a person other  than  a ticket seller or  an operator that conducts a
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 3795
HB 3510
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
resale, or the person’s agent or employee .
(i) “Retail purchaser”  means an individual who purchases an admission ticket for the
individual’s own use as admission to an entertainment event.
(j) “Ticket seller” means a person, including but not limited to an operator  or promoter,
that makes an admission ticket available  for presale or an initial sale to a reseller or retail
purchaser, or the person’s agent or employee.
(k) “Total price” means the total cost a purchaser  must pay to a ticket seller or reseller
for an admission ticket, including every fee, tax, charge,  surcharge or other cost that the
purchaser must pay to receive or use the admission ticket, such  as a service fee, processing
fee, delivery fee, facility fee,  convenience fee, resale fee or other fee or charge, however la-
beled or denominated.
(L) “Venue” means a location in which  an entertainment event occurs, entry to which
requires an admission ticket.
(2)(a) A person may not  knowingly or intentionally sell or use software, the purpose  or effect
of which is to circumvent, thwart, interfere with or evade a control  or measure, including a security
measure or an access control system, that an operator , ticket seller  or reseller establishes  or uses
to ensure an equitable distribution, sale or resale of admission tickets for  an entertainment event ,
to limit the number of admission  tickets a single purchaser may purchase or to implement
other rules or policies the operator, ticket seller  or reseller establishes for a presale, initial
sale or resale of an admission ticket .
(b) A person may not knowingly or intentionally sell or offer  to sell an admission ticket
that the person obtained using software described in paragraph (a) of this subsection.
(c) An operator, ticket seller  or reseller shall notify the Attorney General if the operator,
ticket seller or reseller detects the use of software described  in paragraph (a) of this sub-
section and shall provide available evidence of the use. The Attorney General may investigate
the use of the software and for this purpose may issue an investigative demand under ORS
646.618.
(3)(a) An operator may not deny entry to a venue to, impose a fee  or charge on, or oth-
erwise penalize or discriminate against a person that purchased an admission ticket  from a
ticket seller or reseller that is not affiliated with the operator.
(b) This subsection does not prohibit a person from establishing, maintaining or enforcing
policies that govern conduct at a venue, an allowable age  for admission or a limit on the
number of admission tickets that a single purchaser may purchase.
(4)(a) A reseller or a person affiliated with a  reseller may not offer, or engage in, a resale
of an admission ticket unless the reseller or person:
(A) Has actual or constructive possession  of the admission ticket or has a written con-
tract to obtain the admission ticket from an operator, ticket seller or the  person that pur-
chased the admission ticket in an initial sale; and
(B) Discloses at the outset of the resale:
(i) An approximate delivery date of the admission ticket to the purchaser; and
(ii) The number of admission tickets in the resale that will  allow admission to or seating
in a  specific zone, section, seat or other place within the venue or, if the admission tickets
do not provide for admission to or seating in  a specific zone, section, seat or other place
within the venue, a statement to that effect.
(b) If a ticket seller does not obtain actual or constructive  possession of an admission
[2]
HB 3510
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
ticket after a sale to a purchaser occurs, the ticket seller shall refund not later than 10  days
after the date of the entertainment event the total price, including any  deposit, that the
purchaser paid for the admission ticket.
[(3)] (5)  Violation of [ subsection (2) of ] this section is an unlawful practice under ORS 646.608
that is subject to an action under ORS 646.632 and 646.638.
SECTION 2.
The amendments to ORS 646A.115 by section 1 of  this 2025 Act apply to sales
of or offers to sell admission tickets that occur on or after the  effective date of this 2025
Act.
[3]