1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Joint Resolution 5
Sponsored by Senator MANNING JR; Senators GOLDEN, PATTERSON, PROZANSKI. (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The measure amends the Constitution. The measure lets voters register  on the day of
an election. The amendment goes to the people  to approve or reject at the next election. (Flesch
Readability Score: 61.3).
Proposes an amendment to the Oregon  Constitution to require voters to be registered by the
day of an election.
Refers the proposed amendment to the people for their approval or rejection at the  next general
election.
JOINT RESOLUTION
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
PARAGRAPH 1.
 Section 2, Article II of the  Constitution of the State of Oregon, is amended to
read:
Sec. 2.  Qualifications of electors.  (1)  Every citizen of the United States is entitled to vote in
all elections not otherwise provided for by this Constitution if [ such] the citizen:
(a) Is 18 years of age or older;
(b) Has resided in this  state during the six months immediately preceding the election, except
that provision may be made by law to permit a person who has resided in this state less  than 30
days immediately preceding the election, but who is otherwise qualified under this subsection, to
vote in the election for candidates for nomination or  election for President or Vice President of the
United States or elector of President and Vice President of the United States; and
(c) Is registered not [ less than 20 calendar days  immediately preceding any ] later than the day
of any election in the manner provided by law.
(2) Provision may be made by law to  require that persons who vote upon questions of levying
special taxes or issuing public bonds shall be taxpayers.
PARAGRAPH 2.
The amendment proposed by this resolution shall be submitted to  the
people for their approval or rejection  at the next regular general election held throughout
this state.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 204