1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 807
Printed pursuant to  Senate Interim Rule 213.28 by order of the President of the Senate in conformance with pre-
session filing rules,  indicating neither advocacy nor opposition on the part of the President (at the request
of Governor Tina Kotek for Oregon Military Department)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Allows the Adjutant General  to pay a bonus to a member of the Oregon National Guard
who reenlists or extends their service. Requires a member to repay a bonus if the member fails to
meet the terms agreed to for the bonus. Provides for exceptions. (Flesch Readability Score: 61.8).
Authorizes the Adjutant General to pay a  reenlistment or retention bonus to a member of the
Oregon National Guard. Requires a member to repay the bonus if the member fails to complete  the
period of service or conditions agreed to in exchange for the bonus. Provides for exceptions.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to the Oregon National Guard.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
Section 2 of this 2025 Act is added to and made a part of ORS chapter 399.
SECTION 2. (1) The Adjutant General may pay a bonus to a member of the Oregon  Na-
tional Guard who:
(a) Reenlists or extends the member’s period of service in the Oregon National  Guard for
a period of time that is not less than three years; and
(b) Agrees to meet any other conditions required by the Adjutant General.
(2) A bonus may be paid as a lump sum or in  installments over a period of time not to
exceed the term of reenlistment or extension of the member’s period of service.
(3) To receive a bonus under this section, a  member determined to be eligible for the
bonus shall enter into a written agreement with the Adjutant General.  The terms of the
written agreement must include:
(a) The amount of the bonus;
(b) The payment schedule of the bonus;
(c) The period of time the member agrees to serve in the Oregon National Guard in  ex-
change for the bonus;
(d) The type or condition of the service; and
(e) Any other conditions required by the Adjutant General.
(4) If a member is  called into active service as a member of the Oregon National Guard
during a period of time covered by an  agreement entered into under subsection (3) of this
section, the period of time that the member serves on active service  shall be credited toward
the period of time that the member agrees to serve under subsection (3) of this section.
(5) Except as provided under subsection (6) of this section, a member  who receives a
bonus under this section and fails to complete  the period of service or meet the conditions
of service  for which the bonus is paid, as specified in the written agreement, shall be liable
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 316
SB 807
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
to repay the amounts of the bonus that have been paid to the member.
(6)(a) The Adjutant General may waive, in whole or  in part, the recovery of the amounts
of a bonus that have been paid to a member if  the Adjutant General finds that requiring the
member to repay the amounts of the bonus paid would be contrary to  personnel policy or
administrative efficiency or would be against equity and good conscience.
(b) A member shall not be liable to repay the amounts of a  bonus that have been paid to
the member if the member receives a discharge or release for the reason that  the member
is the only surviving child in a family in which a parent or one or more siblings:
(A)(i) Served in the Armed Forces of the United States; and
(ii) Was killed, died as a result of wounds,  accident or disease, is in a captured or missing
in action status, is permanently 100  percent disabled or is hospitalized on a continuing basis;
and
(B) The death, status, disability or  hospitalization was not a result from intentional
misconduct or willful neglect of the parent or sibling and  did not occur during a period of
unauthorized absence.
(c) A member or a member’s estate shall not be liable to repay the  amounts of a bonus
that have been paid to the member and shall be entitled to any  amounts of the bonus not
yet paid if:
(A) The member dies or is discharged or released with a combat-related disability; and
(B) The death or disability of the member is not a result from  misconduct by the mem-
ber.
[2]