1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 1190
Sponsored by Senator MANNING JR, Representative PHAM H; Representatives FRAGALA, GAMBA
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act makes new laws with  respect to mandatory overtime shifts for some workers.
(Flesch Readability Score: 65.7).
Permits employees of residential training homes  to refuse to work an additional mandatory
overtime shift scheduled  by the employer when the employee has already worked a mandatory
overtime shift in the same month.
Prohibits residential training home employers from requiring  an employee to take unpaid leave
or use paid time off to make up for refusing  to work the additional overtime shift, or from taking
any adverse employment action against the employee.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to mandatory overtime.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) As used in this section:
(a) “Labor organization” has the meaning given that term in ORS 663.005.
(b) “Letter of agreement” means a binding document  that is entered into between a labor
organization and an employer that  is a residential training home for the purpose of tempo-
rarily modifying the terms of a collective  bargaining agreement regarding specific working
conditions.
(c) “Residential training home”  means a residential training home as defined in ORS
443.400 that is:
(A) Operated by the Department of Human Services; and
(B) Staffed by employees 24 hours per day, seven days per week, 365 days per year.
(d) “Written agreement” means:
(A) A collective bargaining agreement.
(B) A letter of agreement.
(2) Unless agreed to otherwise pursuant to a written agreement, if an employer  is a
residential training home and  schedules an employee to work a mandatory overtime shift in
any month in which the employee has already worked one mandatory overtime  shift, the
employee may refuse to work the additional shift and the employer may not:
(a) Discipline, retaliate or take any adverse employment action against the employee for
refusing to work the additional shift; or
(b) Require the employee to take leave without pay or to  use paid personal time off, sick
leave, vacation leave or any other accrued paid time off or leave  to make up for the refusal
to work the additional shift.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 4664