1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 896
Sponsored by Senator ANDERSON
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Creates a grant program to be used to fund after-school  learning and activities. (Flesch
Readability  Score: 63.4).
Establishes the After-School Learning and Enrichment Grant Program. Directs  the Department
of Education to administer the grant program.
Appropriates  moneys  from the General Fund to the Department of Education for the After-
School Learning and Enrichment Grant Program.
Declares an emergency, effective July 1, 2025.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to funding for after-school programs; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
Section 2 of this 2025 Act is added to and made a part of ORS chapter 327.
SECTION 2. (1) The After-School Learning and Enrichment  Grant Program is established
for the purpose  of funding after-school learning and enrichment programs for youth in
kindergarten through grade 12.
(2) A grant may be awarded under the grant program to any of the following:
(a) A school district, an education service district or a public charter school;
(b) A fiscal agent for distribution to a federally recognized Indian tribe in this state; or
(c) A fiscal agent for distribution to a nonprofit organization, a community-based organ-
ization or any other  organization that provides expanded learning or enrichment opportu-
nities.
(3) The Department of Education shall administer the grant program by:
(a) Proposing quality and oversight standards for after-school  learning and enrichment
programs for adoption  by rule by the State Board of Education. For the purpose of this
paragraph, the department shall regularly consult with:
(A) School districts, education service districts, public  charter schools and federally re-
cognized Indian tribes in this state; and
(B) Nonprofit organizations, community-based organizations  and other organizations that
provide expanded learning or enrichment opportunities.
(b) Implementing a process for awarding grants that:
(A) Prioritizes funding  for after-school learning and enrichment programs that serve
youth from rural areas  or historically underserved populations, including youth with disa-
bilities and foster children.
(B) Encourages and supports partnerships between  school districts, education service
districts, public charter schools and federally recognized Indian tribes in this state and with
nonprofit organizations, community-based organizations and other organizations that provide
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1011
SB 896
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
expanded learning or enrichment opportunities.
(C) Aligns outcomes of existing programs, organizations or services  provided to youth
or for the benefit of youth.
(D) Is open, transparent  and inclusive and, when possible, addresses administrative bar-
riers that limit or prevent:
(i) The provision of community-based,  culturally responsive after-school learning and
enrichment programs; and
(ii) The accessing of grant funding by federally recognized Indian tribes in  this state and
by nonprofit organizations, community-based organizations and other organizations  that
provide expanded learning or enrichment opportunities.
(4) The State  Board of Education may adopt any rules necessary for the administration
of this section.
SECTION 3.
In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there  is appropri-
ated to the Department of Education,  for the biennium beginning July 1, 2025, out of the
General Fund, the amount of $_______, for the After-School Learning and  Enrichment Grant
Program established under section 2 of this 2025 Act.
SECTION 4. This 2025 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist,  and this 2025 Act takes effect
July 1, 2025.
[2]