1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2024 Regular Session
Senate Bill 1507
Printed pursuant to  Senate Interim Rule 213.28 by order of the President of the Senate in conformance with pre-
session filing rules,  indicating neither advocacy nor opposition on the part of the President (at the request
of Senate Interim Committee on Health Care)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act directs the  OHA to take steps to take care of hospitals’ problems in finding
places to send certain patients  who are ready to leave the hospital. (Flesch Readability Score: 60.5).
Requires the Oregon Health Authority to take steps to address challenges faced  by hospitals in
discharging patients with complex needs to post-acute care settings.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to challenges faced by hospitals  in discharging patients with complex needs to post-acute
care  settings.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
The Oregon Health Authority shall take all steps  practicable to address the
challenges faced by hospitals in discharging patients with complex  health or behavioral
health needs to  appropriate post-acute care settings. The challenges include, but are not
limited to:
(1) Hospital capacity and workforce shortages;
(2) The need to screen patients to determine their financial needs and service needs;
(3) The limited reimbursement paid by the authority for skilled nursing care;
(4) The lack of placement options for patients with complex needs; and
(5) The lack of available public guardians for patients who are incapacitated.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 87