1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 504
Sponsored by Senator SMITH DB (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: This Act makes LCDC and OPRD  adopt bioengineering rules to protect the coast.
(Flesch Readability Score: 63.4).
Requires the Land Conservation and Development Commission to adopt rules  by January 1,
2028, to allow soil  bioengineering systems for shoreline stabilization. Allows the Department of State
Lands and the State Parks and Recreation Department to adopt conforming rules by January 1, 2029.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to bioengineering for the protection of coastal resources.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) On or before January 1,  2028, the Land Conservation and Development
Commission shall adopt rules that incorporate  the allowance of soil bioengineering systems
for shoreline stabilization in estuaries, coastal shorelands and the ocean shore by, at a min-
imum:
(a) Adopting a definition of “soil bioengineering systems.” The definition:
(A) Must include natural materials that are  dynamic and absorb wave energy and are
meant to mimic natural systems, including but not limited  to trees, plants, logs, rocks, and
woody debris.
(B) May not include structural methods of shoreline  stabilization that are static and re-
flect wave energy.
(C) Must be separate and distinct from  existing rules and definitions for shoreline sta-
bilization in estuaries, coastal shorelands and the ocean shore which include  jetties,
bulkheads, seawalls, riprap, beachfront protective structures and other similar protective
structures.
(b) Requiring that soil bioengineering systems conform with  statewide land use planning
goals and that land use management practices and  nonstructural solutions are prioritized
over structural solutions in addressing problems of erosion and flooding.
(2) In adopting rules under this section the commission:
(a) Shall confer  with the Department of State Lands, the Department of Transportation
and the State Parks and Recreation Department;
(b) Shall appoint an advisory committee under ORS 183.333 that must include  members
who are coastal engineering professionals, representatives of environmental and recreational
organizations, fish and wildlife professionals and local government officials; and
(c) May not substantively amend any process established by rule that allows the De-
partment of  Transportation to perform actions or undertake projects that use shoreline
stabilization that includes structural methods, elements or solutions.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 3519
SB 504
1
2
3
4
5
SECTION 2.
On or before January 1, 2029, the Department of  State Lands and the State
Parks and Recreation Department may adopt rules conforming or consistent with the  rules
adopted by the Land Conservation and Development Commission under  section 1 of this 2025
Act.
[2]