1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Concurrent Resolution 5
Sponsored by Representative EVANS (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Urges the state to spend on veterans at least as much as the state spent on  veterans
during an earlier period of time. (Flesch Readability Score: 62.1).
Resolves that the Legislative Assembly should appropriate from the General Fund to the  De-
partment of Veterans’ Affairs an amount that is no less than the amount appropriated from the
General Fund to the Department of  Veterans’ Affairs in the biennium beginning July 1, 2015, as
adjusted.
CONCURRENT RESOLUTION
Whereas on November 8, 2016, the voters of this state adopted Ballot Measure 96; and
Whereas that measure constitutionally dedicated a portion of state lottery net proceeds  to fund
veterans’ services; and
Whereas it was the intent of the voters that  such funding be in addition to, and not in lieu of,
previous levels of funding for veterans’ services; now, therefore,
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
(1) It is the intention of the Legislative Assembly to  appropriate from the General Fund to the
Department of Veterans’ Affairs an amount that is no less than  the amount appropriated from the
General Fund to the Department of  Veterans’ Affairs in the biennium beginning July 1, 2015, as
adjusted under subsection (2) of this resolution.
(2) For purposes of subsection (1) of this resolution and the appropriation bill that  is enacted
to carry out the intent of this  resolution, the amount appropriated from the General Fund to the
Department of Veterans’ Affairs in the biennium beginning July 1, 2015,  should be adjusted as fol-
lows:
(a) The amount may  not include amounts appropriated in the biennium beginning July 1, 2015,
for debt service payments; and
(b) The amount should  be multiplied by an inflation factor determined by dividing the Consumer
Price Index for December 2024 by the Consumer Price Index for December 2014.
(3) As used in this concurrent resolution, “Consumer Price Index” means  the Consumer Price
Index for All Urban Consumers, West Region  (All Items), as published by the Bureau of Labor Sta-
tistics of the United States Department of Labor.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2660