1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2811
Introduced and printed pursuant to  House Rule 12.00. Presession filed (at the request of Governor Tina Kotek for
Department of Early Learning and Care)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act establishes a program to provide a free book each  month to certain children.
(Flesch Readability Score: 67.5).
Establishes the Imagination Library of Oregon  Program to provide a free book each month to
eligible children, encourage children to develop a love of reading and learning and  improve third-
grade reading proficiency and high school graduation  rates. Directs the Department of Early
Learning and Care to implement the program.
Establishes the Oregon Imagination Library Account within the Department of Early  Learning
and Care Fund for purposes of funding the program.
Declares an emergency, effective July 1, 2025.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to encouragement of reading in young children; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) As used in this section:
(a) “Eligible children” means children from birth to five years of age who reside  in this
state.
(b) “National  nonprofit foundation” means a national nonprofit foundation that exists for
the purpose of working with local entities to identify eligible children and mail  age-
appropriate, high-quality books each month to those children at no cost to families.
(2) The Imagination Library of Oregon  Program is established. The purposes of the
program are to:
(a) Provide a free book each month to eligible children;
(b) Encourage children from birth to five years of age to develop a love of reading  and
learning; and
(c) Improve third-grade reading proficiency and high school graduation rates.
(3) The Department of  Early Learning and Care shall implement the program established
under this section, including by providing financial support to a nonprofit entity that is:
(a) Exempt from taxation under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code; and
(b) Organized under the laws of this state to:
(A) Manage the program established under this section; and
(B) Promote and encourage reading by children by  developing, implementing, promoting
and fostering  a statewide initiative to encourage children from birth to five years of age to
develop a love of reading and learning.
(4) The nonprofit entity described in subsection (3) of this section shall:
(a) Pay an amount of  at least 50 percent of the funds received from the department to
a national nonprofit foundation to provide  age-appropriate, high-quality books each month
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 406
HB 2811
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
to eligible children at no cost to families;
(b) Promote the statewide development of local book-gifting programs;
(c) Provide outreach to local communities about developing local book-gifting programs
in those communities;
(d) Recruit community partners to assist  in the implementation and administration of
local book-gifting programs;
(e) Advance and strengthen local book-gifting programs with the goal of  increasing en-
rollment;
(f) Develop community engagement related to local book-gifting programs;
(g) Develop, promote and coordinate a public awareness campaign to:
(A) Make donors aware of the opportunity to  donate to the program established under
this section; and
(B) Make the  public aware of the opportunity to register eligible children to receive books
through a local book-gifting program;
(h) Develop a statewide marketing and  communication plan related to the program es-
tablished under this section and local book-gifting programs; and
(i) Solicit donations,  gifts and other funding to support the program established under
this section and local book-gifting programs.
(5) The Early Learning Council, in consultation with the department, may adopt  rules to
implement the provisions of this section.
SECTION 2.
(1) The Oregon Imagination Library  Account is established within the De-
partment of Early Learning and Care Fund. Separate records shall be maintained for mon-
eys in the account. Interest earned by the account shall be credited to the account.
(2) Moneys in the account are continuously appropriated to the Department of  Early
Learning and Care for the Imagination Library of Oregon Program  established in section 1
of this 2025 Act.
SECTION 3. This 2025 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the  public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is  declared to exist, and this 2025 Act takes effect
July 1, 2025.
[2]