1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 1033
Sponsored by Senators REYNOLDS, ANDERSON, Representative LEVY B; Senators GELSER BLOUIN,
PATTERSON, WEBER, Representatives GRAYBER, LIVELY, NGUYEN H, NOSSE, SCHARF, SMITH G
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act changes the funding for programs in which nurses visit families while a  parent
is pregnant and for two years after that. (Flesch Readability Score: 62.1).
Exempts a  county that operates a nurse-family partnership program from paying the nonfederal
share of the costs of targeted case management services provided by the program to medical  as-
sistance recipients.
Declares an emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to programs  providing targeted case management nursing services to perinatal families; and
declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) As used in this section:
(a) “Home visit” means a visit to a nurse-family partnership program  participant’s place
of residence or acceptable alternative location in the community.
(b) “Medical assistance” has the meaning given that term in ORS 414.025.
(c) “Nonfederal share” means the expenditures on targeted  case management services
that are matched by the federal government with funds under Title XIX or XXI of the  Social
Security Act.
(d) “Nurse-family partnership program” means a program operated by a county that:
(A) Deploys registered nurses to  support expectant parents, parents and children from
newborn to two years of age;
(B) Provides access to individualized health and educational services  through weekly or
monthly home visits to promote healthy birth outcomes and  positive child health and devel-
opment outcomes;
(C) Conforms to a nurse home visiting services model that:
(i) Is research-based and grounded in relevant empirically-based knowledge;
(ii) Has demonstrated program-determined outcomes;
(iii) Is associated with a national  organization, institution of higher education or other
organization that  has comprehensive home visiting program standards that ensure high-
quality service delivery and continuous program quality improvement; and
(iv) Meets the criteria  for evidence of effectiveness prescribed by the United States De-
partment of Health and Human Services; and
(D) Maintains voluntary participation.
(e) “Targeted case management services” means case management services furnished  to
a specific target group of eligible clients under the Medicaid state plan to  gain access to
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 3152
SB 1033
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
needed medical, social, educational or other services.
(2) A county that operates a nurse-family partnership  program is not responsible for the
nonfederal share of the costs of targeted case management services  provided by the program
to medical assistance recipients.
SECTION 2.
This 2025 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist,  and this 2025 Act takes effect
on its passage.
[2]