1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2399
Sponsored by Representative EVANS (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Tells DAS to start a grant program for  persons who agree to serve in a uniformed ser-
vice or public service program and complete  the basic or initial training. Creates the Restart Initi-
ative Fund. Exempts from personal income tax the  amount of an awarded grant. (Flesch Readability
Score:  63.1).
Directs the Oregon Department of Administrative Services to establish a  program to provide
one-time grants to individuals  who agree to serve in a uniformed service or public service program
and complete the basic or initial training for the uniformed service or  public service program. Cre-
ates the Restart Initiative Fund.
Exempts from personal income tax the amount of an awarded grant.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to a grant program for individuals who do public service.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) As used in this section:
(a) “Public service program” includes:
(A) AmeriCorps;
(B) Peace Corps; and
(C) Any federal public service  program as defined by rule by the Oregon Department of
Administrative Services.
(b) “Uniformed service” includes:
(A) The regular and reserve components of the Armed Forces of the United States;
(B) The Oregon National Guard; and
(C) The commissioned corps of  the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
and the United States Public Health Service.
(2) The Oregon Department of Administrative  Services shall establish a grant program
for the purpose of awarding grants to eligible individuals.
(3) An individual may receive a grant under this section if the individual:
(a) Agrees to serve in a uniformed service or public service program;
(b) Maintains residence in this state at  the time the individual agrees to serve in the
uniformed service or public service program; and
(c) Completes basic  or initial training for the uniformed service or public service program
within six months from the date the grant is reserved.
(4)(a) The amount of each grant awarded under this section shall be $2,500.
(b) An individual may be awarded no more than one grant under this section.
(5)(a) An individual may apply  for a grant under this section before completing the re-
quirements under subsection (3) of this section.
(b) If the department approves an individual’s  application, the department shall reserve
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1077
HB 2399
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
a grant and issue the reserved grant to the individual upon  the individual’s completing the
requirements in subsection (3) of this section.
(6) The department shall prescribe, by rule, the form and manner in  which an individual
may:
(a) Apply for and reserve a grant under this section;
(b) Request an extension of time to complete the requirements for a grant; and
(c) Demonstrate that the individual has completed the requirements for a grant.
SECTION 2.
(1) The Restart Initiative  Fund is established in the State Treasury, separate
and distinct from the General Fund. Moneys in the Restart Initiative Fund consist of
amounts appropriated or otherwise transferred to the  fund by the Legislative Assembly and
other amounts deposited into the fund from any public or private source.
(2) Moneys in the fund are continuously  appropriated to the Oregon Department of Ad-
ministrative Services for the purpose of providing grants under section 1 of this 2025 Act.
SECTION 3. Section 4 of this 2025 Act is added to and made a part of ORS chapter 316.
SECTION 4. The amount of a grant received by  an individual under section 1 of this 2025
Act is exempt from the tax imposed by this chapter.
[2]