1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Concurrent Resolution 11
Sponsored by Senators SOLLMAN, STARR, Representatives PHAM  H, ELMER; Senators BROADMAN, CAMPOS,
LIEBER, MEEK, REYNOLDS, WEBER, Representative GAMBA (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Honors the growth and the goals of NCSL on the 50th anniversary of its  founding.
(Flesch Readability Score: 61.8).
Recognizes and honors the National Conference  of State Legislatures on its 50th anniversary in
2025.
CONCURRENT RESOLUTION
Whereas the National Conference of State Legislatures (NCSL) was founded  in 1975 and has
evolved during the past half-century to become the premier  organization solely dedicated to serving
state and territorial legislators and legislative staff; and
Whereas NCSL was created from the merger of three organizations that served  or represented
state legislatures and that shared the belief that legislative service is one of democracy’s worthiest
pursuits; and
Whereas NCSL is a bipartisan organization with  three objectives: to advance the effectiveness,
independence and integrity of state legislatures; to foster interstate communication  and cooperation;
and to ensure states have a strong, cohesive voice in the federal system; and
Whereas state legislatures are America’s laboratories of  democracy, and they have shown
throughout our nation’s great history that they are the  bodies best equipped to tackle the emerging
challenges faced by communities across the nation; and
Whereas state legislatures are where people from  very different backgrounds, representing very
different communities, can come together and find common ground; and
Whereas NCSL has facilitated the  exchange of ideas, provided critical research and information
and encouraged a rigorous review of the complex issues confronting our communities, states and
nation; and
Whereas NCSL strives to strengthen the bonds between  America’s state legislatures and the
international community; now, therefore,
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
That we, the members of the Eighty-third Legislative Assembly, recognize and honor the Na-
tional Conference of State Legislatures for its superb  leadership and its commitment to the legisla-
tive institution as it celebrates its 50th anniversary in 2025; and be it further
Resolved, That a copy of this resolution shall be presented to the National Conference of  State
Legislatures as an expression of our great appreciation for  its contributions to the State of Oregon.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 884