1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2434
Sponsored by Representative YUNKER;  Representatives BOICE, WRIGHT, Senators NASH, SMITH DB (Presession
filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Tells DAS to study voter registration in this state. (Flesch Readability Score: 66.1).
Requires the Oregon Department of  Administrative Services to conduct a study on voter regis-
tration in this state. Directs the department to submit  findings to the interim committees of the
Legislative Assembly related to elections not later than September 15, 2026.
Sunsets on January 2, 2027.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to voter registration.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Oregon Department of Administrative Services shall  conduct a study
on voter  registration in this state. The study conducted under this section must be broad
enough in scope to provide reasonable assurance to  the voters of this state that every legal
vote counts and is not diluted or negated. The study must address any lapses in the  elections
processes in this state and be  sufficiently comprehensive to address the voter registration
systems, voter list maintenance processes and the accuracy of voter lists.
(2) The study conducted under this section shall review:
(a) Any irregularities observed within the Department of Transportation;
(b) Any  irregularities in the issuance of ballots to voters, including multiple ballots issued
for the same individual, ballots issued to individuals registered in another county or  state
and ballots issued to deceased individuals;
(c) The risk of ballots being issued to individuals who are either ineligible or  inaccurately
registered;
(d) The number of registered voters  in each county in this state, with an assessment of
whether the number of registered voters in each county is reasonable  based on the most
recent population survey of the estimates of this state’s population; and
(e) This state’s use  of established verification systems for voter registration, including
the Electronic Registration Information Center system, the Help America Vote  Verification
system and the use of Social Security number verification.
(3) In conducting the study under this section, the Oregon Department of Administrative
Services may seek input  from the United States Election Assistance Commission, the United
States Department of Justice and the  National Conference of State Legislatures to guide the
Oregon Department of Administrative Services in the establishment of standards for the
study and to identify best practices for voter list maintenance.
(4) All agencies  of state government, as defined in ORS 174.111, including and especially
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1198
HB 2434
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
the Secretary of State, the Department of Transportation and the Oregon Health  Authority,
as well as each office of the county clerk in  this state, are directed to assist the Oregon
Department of Administrative Services in the performance of the duties of the  study under
this section and, to the extent permitted by laws  related to confidentiality, to furnish infor-
mation and advice that the department considers necessary to the performance of its duties.
(5) The  Oregon Department of Administrative Services shall submit a report in the
manner provided by ORS 192.245, and may include recommendations for legislation, to the
interim committees of the Legislative Assembly related to elections not later than September
15, 2026.
SECTION 2.
Section 1 of this 2025 Act is repealed on January 2, 2027.
[2]