1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2024 Regular Session
Senate Bill 1587
Sponsored by Senators HANSELL, GELSER BLOUIN,  Representatives LEVY B, WALLAN; Senator ANDERSON,
Representative REYNOLDS (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act protects a children’s advocacy center from legal  action for looking into the
abuse of a child if a nationwide group  says that the center meets certain standards. The Act pro-
tects the center’s employees, too. The Act does not protect a  center from legal action based on its
employees’ adverse treatment of a person on  the basis of a protected class. The Act goes into effect
when the Governor signs it. (Flesch Readability Score: 61.6).
Grants certain immunities to children’s advocacy  centers and to employees and designated
agents of children’s advocacy centers.
Requires applicants for funds to  establish and maintain a children’s advocacy center to include
evidence of the center’s accreditation with a nationally recognized organization.
Declares an emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to children’s advocacy centers; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
Section 2 of this 2024 Act is added to and made a  part of ORS 418.746 to
418.796.
SECTION 2. (1) If a children’s advocacy center provides evidence  that it is a member in
good standing of, or is actively working towards accreditation by, a national  organization
that provides accreditation based on nationally recognized standards  and on evidence-based
measures, an employee or designated  agent of the children’s advocacy center who is partic-
ipating in good faith in a child abuse assessment and who has reasonable grounds for that
participation and for the conclusions or diagnoses made  in that assessment shall have im-
munity:
(a) From any civil liability that might otherwise be incurred or imposed with respect to
participating in the assessment; and
(b) With respect to participating in any judicial proceeding resulting from the  assess-
ment.
(2) A children’s advocacy center  shall have the same immunity from any civil liability
that might otherwise be incurred with respect to its employees’ or designated agents’  par-
ticipation in a child abuse assessment as described in subsection (1) of this section.
(3) Nothing in this section provides a children’s advocacy center  with immunity from li-
ability for discrimination by  its employees or designated agents if the discrimination is on
the basis of a protected class, as defined in ORS 652.210.
(4) Nothing in this section  may be construed to limit or otherwise affect the liability of
any person for damages resulting from the person’s:
(a) Gross negligence;
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 254
SB 1587
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
(b) Reckless, wanton or intentional misconduct;
(c) Abuse or neglect of the child who is the subject of the child abuse assessment; or
(d) Medical malpractice.
(5) As used in this section, “designated agent” means a person contracted by a children’s
advocacy center to conduct child abuse assessments.
SECTION 3.
Section 2 of this 2024 Act applies to acts occurring on or after the effective
date of this 2024 Act.
SECTION 4. This 2024 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the  public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is  declared to exist, and this 2024 Act takes effect
on its passage.
[2]