1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 823
Printed pursuant to  Senate Interim Rule 213.28 by order of the President of the Senate in conformance with pre-
session filing rules,  indicating neither advocacy nor opposition on the part of the President (at the request
of Governor Tina Kotek for Oregon Department of Emergency Management)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act authorizes ODEM to buy or contract for  certain goods. (Flesch Readability
Score: 64.9).
Authorizes the Oregon Department  of Emergency Management to purchase or contract for cer-
tain materials, supplies and equipment.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to the Oregon Department of Emergency Management; amending ORS 401.052.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 401.052 is amended to read:
401.052. (1) The Oregon Department of Emergency Management is established.
(2) The department shall be responsible for:
(a) Coordinating and facilitating private sector and governmental efforts to prevent,  prepare for,
respond to and recover from emergencies; and
(b) Coordinating exercises and training, planning, preparedness, response, mitigation  and recov-
ery activities with state and local emergency services agencies and organizations.
(3) The  department may purchase or contract for any materials, supplies or equipment,
including motor vehicles, that the  department deems necessary to carry out the duties of the
department.
[(3)] (4) The department shall prepare  a statewide emergency management plan and update the
plan from time to time as necessary.NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 369