1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
80th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2020 Regular Session
House Bill 4166
Sponsored by COMMITTEE ON RULES (at the request of Representative Paul Holvey)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Authorizes Oregon Department of Administrative Services to contract for independent economist
to perform work related to  wildfire protection and wildfire suppression cost and funding source in-
formation for lands protected by State Forestry Department. Provides  for appointment of project
team or  technical advisory group to assist economist. Requires completion of work and report of
findings and recommendations no later than November 30, 2020.
Declares emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to an  analysis of wildfire economics on lands protected by the State Forestry Department;
and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The  Oregon Department of Administrative Services may enter into a
contract for an independent economist to:
(a) Collect data and other information regarding:
(A) The actual costs of  wildfire protection and wildfire suppression on lands protected
by the State Forestry Department; and
(B) The source of moneys used to pay costs  of wildfire protection and wildfire sup-
pression on lands protected by the State Forestry Department;
(b) Identify ways to  improve tracking and substantiation for costs and funding sources
described in paragraph (a) of this subsection;
(c) Compare Oregon costs and funding sources for  wildfire protection and wildfire sup-
pression on lands protected by the State Forestry Department  with costs and funding
sources for wildfire protection and wildfire suppression in comparable states;
(d) Identify regional differences in costs and funding sources for wildfire protection  and
wildfire suppression on lands protected by the State Forestry Department; and
(e) Provide data and information described in paragraphs (a) to (d) of this subsection  in
a format that will enable an  informed discussion regarding the equitable allocation of wildfire
protection and wildfire suppression costs on lands protected by the State  Forestry Depart-
ment and regarding the value of that wildfire  protection and wildfire suppression toward the
protection of private and public assets.
(2) The economist contracting with the Oregon Department of Administrative  Services
under subsection (1) of this section shall  perform the work in collaboration with a project
team or technical advisory group convened and  overseen by the department. The President
of the Senate and the Speaker of  the House of Representatives shall jointly appoint the
project team or technical advisory group.  The project team or technical advisory group shall
consist of:
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 306
HB 4166
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
(a) Not more than four members who are members of the Legislative Assembly; and
(b) The following, each of whom must have expertise  regarding costs and funding sources
for wildfire protection and wildfire suppression:
(A) One representative of the Legislative Fiscal Office;
(B) One representative of the Legislative Revenue Officer;
(C) One representative of the State Forestry Department;
(D) One representative of the Emergency Fire Cost Committee;
(E) One representative of the forest industry;
(F) One small woodland owner; and
(G) Two representatives of public interest groups.
(3) Members  of the Legislative Assembly shall serve on the project team or technical
advisory group described in subsection (2) of this section only in an advisory capacity.
(4) The economist and the project team or technical  advisory group shall complete the
work described in subsection  (1) of this section and report the resulting findings and rec-
ommendations to the Governor’s Council on Wildfire Response and to an interim committee
of the Legislative Assembly relating to natural resources,  in the manner provided under ORS
192.245, no later than November 30, 2020.
SECTION 2.
This 2020 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist,  and this 2020 Act takes effect
on its passage.
[2]