1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2769
Sponsored by Representative EVANS (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act tells OBDD to  give info about emergencies to small businesses. The Act tells
OBDD to run a program to give  grants to small businesses to prepare for emergencies. (Flesch
Readability Score: 61.8).
Directs the Oregon Business Development Department to develop a registry  of small businesses
interested in receiving communications  relating to emergency management. Directs the department
to use the registry to communicate information relating to emergency management  to small busi-
nesses.
Directs the department to develop and implement a program to provide grants  and assistance
to small businesses to strengthen emergency resilience.
Declares an emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to emergency management; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Oregon Business Development Department, in collaboration with the
Secretary of State,  shall develop a registry of small businesses that are interested in re-
ceiving communications from the department related to emergency preparedness,  response
and recovery.
(2) The department, in collaboration with the Oregon Department  of Emergency Man-
agement and county, city and tribal emergency management agencies, shall use  the registry
to:
(a) Inform small businesses of new  or ongoing programs or opportunities related to
emergency management and relevant to small businesses, including the Small  Business
Resilience Program established under section 2 of this 2025 Act; and
(b) Regularly communicate with  small businesses about emergency planning and
preparedness, with the goal of integrating small businesses  into the emergency management
strategy of the state.
(3) The  Oregon Business Development Department shall continuously conduct outreach
to small businesses across this state to encourage small businesses to join the registry.
(4) As used in  this section, “small business” means a business having 50 or fewer em-
ployees.
SECTION 2. (1) The Oregon Business Development Department shall develop and imple-
ment a program, known as the Small Business Resilience Program, to  provide grants and
assistance to small businesses to enhance the emergency resilience of this state.
(2) Through the program, the department shall:
(a) Issue grants to small businesses to pay for upgrades to equipment,  materials or fa-
cilities that will strengthen the overall emergency resilience of the small businesses  and the
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2441
HB 2769
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
localities in which the small businesses are located; and
(b) Provide technical assistance to small businesses in navigating state  and federal pro-
grams related to emergency preparedness or emergency response and recovery.
(3) The department shall consult with the Oregon Department of Emergency Manage-
ment and county,  city and tribal emergency management agencies in developing and man-
aging the program.
(4) The Oregon Business Development Department may adopt rules  to carry out the
provisions of this section.
(5) As used in  this section, “small business” means a business having 50 or fewer em-
ployees.
SECTION 3.
This 2025 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist,  and this 2025 Act takes effect
on its passage.
[2]