1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2026 Regular Session
House Bill 4024
Introduced and  printed pursuant to House Rule 12.00. Presession filed (at the request of House Interim Committee
on Commerce and Consumer Protection for Representative Nathan Sosa)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Says a reseller  may not offer or resell a ticket unless the reseller has or can get the
ticket. (Flesch Readability Score: 62.8).
Prohibits a reseller or person affiliated with  a reseller from offering for resale or engaging in
a resale of an  admission ticket unless the reseller or person affiliated with the reseller has actual
or constructive possession of the admission ticket or explicit authorization in a written  contract to
obtain the admission ticket from an operator, a  ticket seller or a person the operator or ticket seller
authorized to purchase the admission ticket in an initial sale.
Takes effect on the 91st day following adjournment sine die.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to speculative ticket sales; amending ORS 646A.115; and prescribing an effective date.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 646A.115 is amended to read:
646A.115. (1) As used in this section:
(a) “Admission ticket” means  evidence of a purchaser’s right of entry to a venue other than a
commercial motion picture theater or an entertainment event other than a movie shown at a  com-
mercial motion picture theater.
(b)(A) “Entertainment event” means a performance,  recreation, amusement, diversion, spectacle,
show or similar event that occurs in this state including, but not limited to,  a theatrical or musical
performance, concert, film, game, ride or sporting event.
(B) “Entertainment event” does not include a trade show.
(c) “Initial sale” means a ticket seller’s first sale of an admission ticket to a purchaser.
(d) “Operator” means a person that owns, operates or controls a venue or that  produces or
promotes an entertainment event, or the person’s agent or employee.
(e) “Presale” means a sale of admission  tickets to a selected group of purchasers with the per-
mission of the ticket  seller before admission tickets become available for purchase to the general
public.
(f) “Promoter” means a person that organizes financing or publicity  for an entertainment event,
or the person’s agent or employee.
(g) “Purchaser” means an individual who purchases an admission ticket as admission to an
entertainment event.
(h) “Resale” means a sale  other than a ticket seller or an operator’s initial sale of an admission
ticket for a venue that is located in or an entertainment event that occurs in  this state, irrespective
of the location in  which the sale occurs or the means by which a reseller solicits or advertises the
sale or delivers or receives payment for the admission ticket.
(i) “Reseller” means a person other than a ticket seller or an operator that conducts a  resale,
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 137
HB 4024
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
or the person’s agent or employee.
(j) “Ticket seller” means  a person, including but not limited to an operator or promoter, that
makes an admission ticket available for presale or an initial sale to  a purchaser or reseller, or the
person’s agent or employee.
(k) “Venue” means a location in which  an entertainment event occurs, entry to which requires
an admission ticket.
(2)(a) A person may not willfully sell or use software, the  purpose of which is to circumvent,
thwart, interfere with or evade  a control or measure, including a security measure or an access
control system, that an operator, ticket seller or reseller establishes or uses to ensure an equitable
distribution, sale or resale of admission tickets for an entertainment event, including a public or
private presale of admission tickets, or to limit the number  of admission tickets a single purchaser
may purchase from a ticket seller or reseller.
(b) A person may not  willfully sell or offer to sell an admission ticket that the person obtained
using software described in paragraph (a) of this subsection.
(3)(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this subsection, a person may not,  without prior
written authorization, willfully:
(A) Use or  cause another person to use an Internet domain name or subdomain name if the do-
main name or subdomain name:
(i) Names the venue;
(ii) Names the entertainment event or an individual or entity that  is scheduled to appear or
perform at the entertainment event; or
(iii) Is substantially similar to the name of the venue, of  the entertainment event or of a person
or entity that is scheduled to appear or perform at the entertainment event; or
(B) Publish or cause another person to publish a website that has or uses:
(i) Text, images, graphics, a design or other material that  individually or in combination is so
substantially similar to the intellectual property of  an operator or venue as to mislead a reasonable
visitor to the website into believing that the website is affiliated with the operator or venue; or
(ii) Text, images, graphics or a design that states or implies, including by use of the word  “of-
ficial,” that the website is  affiliated with or endorsed by an operator or venue or an individual or
entity that is scheduled to appear or perform at an entertainment event.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this subsection does not apply to a person that is licensed to use an image
of, or is otherwise authorized to act on behalf of:
(A) A venue, a promoter or another person that is scheduled to  appear or perform at an enter-
tainment event; or
(B) A promoter or sponsor of:
(i) The entertainment event; or
(ii) A person that is scheduled to appear or perform at the entertainment event.
(c) A seating chart of a venue or a  picture of a view from a seat in a venue does not constitute
text, images, graphics or a design that  a person may not publish or cause another person to publish
under paragraph (a)(B) of this subsection.
(4) A reseller or person affiliated with a reseller  may not offer for resale or engage in a
resale of an admission ticket unless the reseller or person affiliated with the reseller:
(a) Has actual or constructive possession of the admission ticket; or
(b) Has explicit authorization in a written contract with an operator to obtain the ad-
mission ticket from the  operator, a ticket seller or a person that the operator or ticket seller
[2]
HB 4024
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
authorized to purchase the admission ticket from the operator or ticket  seller in an initial
sale.
[(4)] (5)  Violation of  this section is an unlawful practice under ORS 646.608 that is subject to
an action under ORS 646.632 and 646.638.
SECTION 2.
This 2026 Act takes effect on the 91st day after the date on  which the 2026
regular session of the Eighty-third Legislative Assembly adjourns sine die.
[3]