1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 3147
Sponsored by Representative MARSH, Senators SMITH DB, WOODS (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Tells each state agency  to focus on and speed up the process to allow a person to build,
site or operate broadband services. (Flesch Readability Score: 62.1).
Declares a state  goal to capitalize on and make the best use of federal moneys available for
broadband service infrastructure.
Directs each state agency to  prioritize and expedite the process for permits and other govern-
mental authorizations necessary for the construction, siting or  operation of broadband service
infrastructure.
Declares an emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to broadband service infrastructure; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) As  used in this section, “state agency” means any officer, board, com-
mission, department, division or institution in the executive branch of state government.
(2) The Legislative Assembly declares that it  is the goal of this state to capitalize on and
make the best use of  moneys available under the federal Coronavirus Capital Projects Fund
(42 U.S.C. 804) and the federal Broadband Equity, Access, and Deployment program estab-
lished under 47 U.S.C.  1702, to support access to and expand broadband and other telecom-
munications services for  all Oregonians. However, the Legislative Assembly finds that there
are limited timelines and multiple deadlines for this  state to capitalize on and make the best
use of the moneys available under these federal programs.
(3) To further the goal of this state described under subsection (2) of  this section, each
state agency  that reviews applications for or makes decisions on whether to issue a permit
or other governmental authorization necessary for the  construction, siting or operation of
broadband service infrastructure shall:
(a) Prioritize,  over other permits or other governmental authorizations, the review of,
and the final decision on, permits or other governmental authorizations necessary for  the
construction, siting or operation of broadband service infrastructure;
(b) Within the authority and discretion otherwise afforded the agency by  law, expedite
review of, and the final decision on, the permits or other  governmental authorizations nec-
essary for the construction, siting or operation of broadband service infrastructure; and
(c) Complete the permitting or  other governmental authorization process in the most
cost-effective and timely manner  consistent with legal requirements administered by the
agency.
(4) This section  does not apply to permits or other governmental authorizations neces-
sary to respond to an emergency declared by the Governor.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1858
HB 3147
1
2
3
4
5
SECTION 2.
Section 1 of this 2025 Act is repealed on January 2, 2030.
SECTION 3. This 2025 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the  public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is  declared to exist, and this 2025 Act takes effect
on its passage.
[2]