1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2892
Sponsored by Representative EVANS (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act says that the state may  not give money to a county for capital construction
unless the county attests that it will not secede. (Flesch Readability Score: 63.0).
Provides that a state agency may  not provide moneys to a county for capital construction unless
the county attests that it will remain  a county in the State of Oregon for a specified length of time.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to state funding of county projects.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) Notwithstanding any other law, if a state agency is directed or authorized
to provide moneys to a county to be used,  in whole or in part, for a capital construction
project, the state agency may not provide the moneys unless  the county attests, in a manner
described in subsection (2) of this  section, that the county will remain a county within the
State of Oregon:
(a) If the moneys to be provided are the proceeds of bonds,  until the maturity of the
bonds; or
(b) If the moneys to be provided are not the proceeds of bonds, for 40 years.
(2) The attestation required under subsection (1) of this section may be made by:
(a) A notarized letter signed by a majority of the  members of the governing board of the
county; or
(b) The passage of a resolution.
(3) The requirements of this section  are in addition to any other requirements imposed
by law in connection with state funding to counties.
(4) As used in this section, “capital construction”  means the construction, modification,
replacement, repair, remodeling or renovation of a structure,  or addition to a structure, that
is expected to have a useful life of more than one year.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1776