1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Joint Resolution 18
Sponsored by Senator BONHAM (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The measure proposes new limits on the  Governor’s power to declare emergencies. The
limits would go to a vote of the people. (Flesch Readability Score: 61.0).
Proposes an amendment to the Oregon Constitution to place durational and other limitations
on declarations of emergency by the Governor.
Refers the proposed amendment to the people for their approval or rejection at the next regular
general election.
JOINT RESOLUTION
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
PARAGRAPH 1.
 The Constitution of the State of Oregon is amended by creating a new  section
48 to be added to and made part of Article I, such section to read:
SECTION 48. (1) The Governor  has no inherent power to declare an emergency as to any
matter, except where a statute specifically authorizes such a declaration.
(2) Any  declaration of emergency by the Governor must specify the county or counties
in which the emergency exists,  so as to apply an emergency declaration, and the reason or
reasons for the declaration of emergency.
(3) Any declaration of  emergency may implement or apply existing state powers and
funding, but may not create or implement new powers or funding and may not expand the
jurisdiction or authority of any government agency or institution.
(4) Any declaration  of emergency, and authority granted and actions taken thereunder,
may not exist for more than 30 days after the date of the declaration of emergency,  except
as provided in subsection (5) of this section.
(5) In each county subject to a declaration of emergency by the Governor, upon the ex-
piration of the initial 30 days of emergency, the  governing body of the county may extend the
emergency, for that county, by 30 days. The emergency declaration shall cease to have  legal
effect for that  county after these 30 calendar days have passed, unless the governing body
extends the emergency  for that county by another 30 days. The governing body of a county
subject to an emergency declaration may  continue the emergency declaration in successive
30-day extensions. The governing body may not expand the authority  and powers under the
original declaration of emergency, but may reduce  the authority and powers as they apply
to their county.
(6) The Legislative Assembly, by resolution passed by  a majority vote of the House of
Representatives and a majority vote of the Senate, may terminate any declaration  of emer-
gency by the Governor. Such resolution is effective without approval by the Governor.
(7) After a declaration  of emergency has expired or been terminated, the Governor may
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1832
SJR 18
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
not declare another emergency  as to any matter or situation reasonably related to the ori-
ginal declaration of emergency until at least one year after the expiration  or termination of
the original declaration of emergency.
PARAGRAPH 2.
The amendment proposed by this resolution shall be submitted to  the
people for their approval or rejection  at the next regular general election held throughout
this state.
[2]