1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
80th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2019 Regular Session
Senate Bill 945
Sponsored by Senator DEMBROW
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Permits Commissioner of Bureau of Labor and Industries,  in consultation with Director of De-
partment of Consumer and Business Services,  to enter into written agreement, jointly or separately,
with nonprofit organization to conduct outreach and education regarding rights and available  rem-
edies for labor contractors who engage in forestation and reforestation work.
Requires commissioner to adopt  rules establishing minimum criteria that nonprofit must meet
to be eligible for funding to conduct outreach.
Appropriates moneys from General Fund to the bureau to carry out provisions of Act.
Declares emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to outreach to certain labor contractors; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1)(a) The Commissioner of the Bureau of  Labor and Industries, in consul-
tation with the Director of the Department of  Consumer and Business Services, may enter
into a written agreement, jointly or  separately, with a nonprofit organization that meets the
criteria established by the bureau by rule, to provide funding for  outreach and education to
labor contractors who engage in forestation or reforestation of lands in this state.
(b) The outreach and education shall provide information regarding the rights and pro-
tections available to labor contractors who engage in forestation  or reforestation work, in-
cluding any available judicial or administrative remedies.
(2) A written agreement entered into under subsection (1) of this section must include a
provision that allows an employee to designate the  nonprofit organization as the employee’s
representative for purposes  of filing a complaint with the Department of Consumer and
Business Services under ORS chapter 654 or with the commissioner, alleging  an unlawful
practice under ORS chapters 658 or 659A.
(3) The commissioner shall adopt rules establishing the minimum criteria that  a
nonprofit organization must meet before being eligible  for funding under subsection (1) of
this section.
(4) As used in this section “labor contractor” has the meaning given  that term in ORS
658.405.
SECTION 2. In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there is appropri-
ated to  the Bureau of Labor and Industries, for the biennium beginning July 1, 2019, out of
the General Fund, the amount of $_______, which  may be expended for carrying out the
purposes described in section 1 of this 2019 Act.
SECTION 3. This 2019 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist,  and this 2019 Act takes effect
on its passage.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2641
SB 945
1
[2]