1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2026 Regular Session
House Bill 4152
Sponsored by Representative WATANABE; Representatives BOWMAN, GOMBERG, ISADORE, NOSSE,  SMITH G,
WISE, Senators FREDERICK, GELSER BLOUIN, MEEK (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act lets deployed people get  married even if they cannot be there in person if cer-
tain criteria are met. (Flesch Readability Score: 60.6).
Modifies provisions regarding solemnization of marriage to permit deployed service members  to
be married remotely.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to remote marriage solemnization of deployed persons.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) As used in this section:
(a) “Armed  Forces of the United States” includes the regular and reserve components
of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, Coast Guard and Space Force  of the United
States and the National Guard.
(b) “Communication technology” means an electronic device or process that  allows two
or more individuals who are not in the physical  presence of each other to communicate si-
multaneously by sight and sound.
(c) “Judicial officer” means a judicial officer described in ORS 106.120 (1)(a)(A).
(d) “Service member” means a member of the Armed Forces of the United States.
(2) If one of the parties to an application for a marriage license is  unable to submit the
application to the clerk of court in person by reason of active service, the county  clerk may
not refuse to issue the marriage license solely because the service member is not  physically
present.
(3) Notwithstanding ORS 106.150 (1), if one  of the parties to a solemnization of marriage
is a service member who is unable to be physically present at the  time of solemnization by
reason of active service, the marriage may be solemnized without the  service member’s
physical presence only if:
(a) The marriage is solemnized by a judicial officer;
(b) The service member appears remotely using communication technology; and
(c) All other requirements under ORS 106.150 (1) are met.
(4) The judicial officer may waive the fee required under ORS 106.120 (4) for a marriage
solemnized as provided in this section.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 57