1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2458
Sponsored by Representative EVANS (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Tells HECC to study reporting requirements by higher learning schools  in this state.
Tells HECC to create a plan to reduce the number of reports. (Flesch Readability Score: 81.8).
Requires the  Higher Education Coordinating Commission to conduct a study on reporting re-
quirements placed on public universities in this  state. Specifies that the study must include an in-
ventory of all reporting  requirements and a plan to reduce any unnecessary or duplicative
requirements.
Declares an emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to reporting requirements for public universities; and declaring an emergency.
Whereas public universities in this state are currently burdened with numerous reporting  re-
quirements that are often unfunded, leading to  significant financial and administrative strain on the
institutions; and
Whereas duplication  in reporting requirements across various agencies creates inefficiencies,
wastes resources and diverts valuable time and effort away from educational priorities; and
Whereas reducing unnecessary reporting can free up funds that can  be better utilized for aca-
demic programs, student services and institutional improvements; and
Whereas the Higher Education Coordinating Commission is in a position to oversee and  coor-
dinate reporting requirements for public universities to ensure alignment  with educational goals and
efficient use of resources; and
Whereas the aim of the Legislative Assembly is  to support the implementation of recommen-
dations that would  reduce unnecessary and duplicative reporting requirements to enhance the effi-
ciency and effectiveness of  public universities in this state, thereby fostering an environment that
prioritizes educational excellence and student success; now, therefore,
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Higher Education Coordinating Commission shall  conduct a study
regarding reporting requirements for the public universities listed in  ORS 352.002. The study
must:
(a) Include an inventory of all requirements placed on the public universities  by law and
rule to report specified information to the commission;
(b) Identify any overlapping or duplicative  requirements among the reporting require-
ments inventoried under paragraph (a) of this subsection; and
(c) Develop, in consultation with the  presidents of the public universities, a plan to
eliminate any unnecessary or duplicative reporting requirements.
(2) The commission shall submit a report, including the plan required  under subsection
(1)(c) of this section, in the manner provided by ORS 192.245 to the  interim committees of
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1079
HB 2458
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
the Legislative Assembly related to  higher education for review and approval by September
15, 2026.
SECTION 2.
Section 1 of this 2025 Act is repealed on January 2, 2027.
SECTION 3. This 2025 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist,  and this 2025 Act takes effect
on its passage.
[2]