1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 3878
Sponsored by Representative GOMBERG
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act concerns lab research on dogs and  cats. The Act says that research facilities
may not use public funds for certain types of the lab research. (Flesch Readability Score: 80.3).
Prohibits a research facility from using public funds to directly fund medically unnecessary
laboratory research on dogs or cats that is classified under certain pain and distress categories.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to public funding for painful research.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) As used in this section:
(a) “Clinical veterinary research” means research  on an animal with a naturally occur-
ring disease or injury that is conducted:
(A) For the benefit of the animal; and
(B) With the intention of studying the effect of a procedure, device or  treatment proto-
col.
(b) “Directly fund” does not mean the issuance of funds for:
(A) The construction or maintenance of a research facility;
(B) The purchase or maintenance of general-use equipment;
(C) Overhead costs;
(D) Capital improvements; or
(E) Faculty or employee salaries.
(c) “Laboratory research” has the meaning given that term in ORS 609.410.
(d) “Medically unnecessary laboratory research” means laboratory  research on an animal
that is undertaken for a primary purpose other than  improving the health, welfare or safety
of the animal.
(e) “Research facility” has the meaning given that term in ORS 609.410.
(f) “Veterinary education” means laboratory research on an animal for the purpose  of
training veterinary professionals under a program accredited by the American  Veterinary
Medical Association.
(2) A research facility may not  use public funds, in whole or in part, to directly fund
medically unnecessary laboratory research on dogs or cats that  is classified under a pain and
distress category D or E by the United States Department of Agriculture.
(3) This section does not apply to a procedure performed on a  dog or cat for the purpose
of veterinary education or clinical veterinary research.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1199