1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 1074
Sponsored by COMMITTEE ON HUMAN SERVICES
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The  Act tells DHS to do certain things when preparing caseload forecasts. (Flesch
Readability Score: 60.7).
Directs the Department of Human Services to prepare accurate caseload forecasts  of the older
adults and individuals with disabilities who  will be served by the department during the biennium
and projections for the workload  needed to serve those individuals that take into account specified
factors.  Requires  the department to report any changes during the biennium to the Legislative As-
sembly.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to funding for services for vulnerable individuals.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) In preparing the agency request budget for  each biennium, the Depart-
ment of Human  Services shall prepare accurate caseload forecasts of the older adults and
individuals with disabilities who will be served by the department during the biennium and
projections for the workload needed to serve those individuals that take into account:
(a) The most current and accurate information;
(b) The number  of all individuals who are likely to qualify for the state medical assistance
program during the biennium;
(c) Any new requirements imposed by state  or federal Medicaid law on department staff
or providers; and
(d) All required work tasks, including all services, supports,  programs and administrative
tasks required by state or federal law.
(2) The department, in collaboration with the trade association representing  area agen-
cies, as defined in ORS 410.040, shall report to the Legislative Assembly, in the  manner pro-
vided in ORS  192.245, any changes or adjustments to caseload forecasts or workload
projections that arise during the biennium and the implications of those changes  or adjust-
ments for the department’s budget.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 3900