1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 462
Sponsored by Senator WEBER; Senator FREDERICK, Representatives LEVY B, WRIGHT (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: This Act  makes Business Oregon create a required course for land use planners. (Flesch
Readability Score: 69.9).
Requires the Oregon Business Development Department to establish an education course for
land use planners for local  governments, special districts and state agencies. Requires completion
of the course at least once every two years.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to continuing education course for planners.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
Section 2 of this 2025 Act is added to and made a part of ORS chapter 197.
SECTION 2. (1) The Oregon Business Development Department shall develop a continuing
education course that provides training and testing for participants regarding:
(a) Basic  economic principles related to land development, including land acquisition,
development costs, time value of money, risk assessment and supply and demand;
(b) The societal benefits of property ownership, including homeownership;
(c) Basic principles of Oregon land use  law, including state requirements for housing; and
(d) The economic impact of regulation.
(2) The  instructors responsible for teaching and developing the course must be involved
in or represent the development industry.
(3) Except for employees of the  Land Conservation and Development Commission and
Land Use Board of Appeals, the  course is required at least once every two years and within
one year of employment for any individual, other than an elected official,  who is employed
by a local government, special district, or state agency, and who is responsible for:
(a) Applying  or interpreting a Land Conservation and Development Commission rule,
state agency coordination program, statewide  land use planning goal, comprehensive plan,
Metro functional plan or a land use regulation;
(b) Adopting or amending a  state agency coordination program, statewide land use plan-
ning goal, comprehensive plan, Metro functional plan or a land use regulation; or
(c) Making a land use decision or limited land use decision.
(4) The course may be  made available in a variety of formats. The department may
charge a reasonable fee  to course participants for the purposes of covering the costs of
creating and administering the course. The course must be free for elected officials who elect
to attend the course.
(5) The department shall maintain records  of completion of the course for a period of six
years.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1257
SB 462
1
2
3
4
SECTION 3.
Notwithstanding section 2 (3) of this 2025 Act, individuals who, on the ef-
fective date of this 2025 Act, are required to complete the course as described in  section 2
(3) of this 2025 Act must first complete the course by no later than January 1, 2028.
[2]