81st OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2021 Regular Session
Enrolled
House Bill 2505
Sponsored by Representatives SANCHEZ, STARK, WILLIAMS; Representatives ALONSO  LEON,
BYNUM, CAMPOS, DEXTER, GRAYBER, HELM, KROPF,  LEIF, NERON, NOBLE, POWER,
SCHOUTEN, SOLLMAN, WILDE, Senator GELSER (Presession filed.)
CHAPTER .................................................
AN ACT
Relating to Governor’s Child  Foster Care Advisory Commission; creating new provisions; and
amending ORS 418.041, 418.043 and 418.044.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1. (1) The Governor’s Child Foster Care Advisory Commission  may establish
any advisory or technical committees the  commission considers necessary to aid and advise
the commission in the  performance of its functions. The committees may be continuing or
temporary committees. Persons who are not commission  members may be appointed as
members to serve on the committees with the approval of the commission.
(2) Except as otherwise specifically provided, members of a committee  created under this
section are not entitled to  compensation but, in the discretion of the commission, may be
reimbursed from funds available to the commission for actual and necessary travel and other
expenses incurred by the members in the performance of official  duties in the manner and
amount provided in ORS 292.495.
(3)(a) The commission shall establish a Child Welfare Equity Advisory Committee  com-
posed of members of the commission,  employees of the Department of Human Services who
make decisions regarding the removal of children from their homes, current or former foster
parents or foster children and other child  welfare stakeholders. The commission shall ap-
point members of the committee in such a manner as to  ensure representation from all
segments of the child  foster care system that are affected by the work of the committee,
taking into consideration the geographic, racial, ethnic and  gender diversity of the popu-
lations receiving child welfare services.  A majority of the members of the committee must
represent populations disproportionately overrepresented in the child welfare system.
(b) A member of  the committee is entitled to compensation and expenses in the manner
and amounts provided for in ORS 292.495. Claims for compensation and expenses  incurred
in performing the functions of the committee shall be paid out  of funds appropriated to the
commission for that purpose.
(c) A member of the committee  shall serve a one-year term, but a member serves at the
pleasure of the commission. A member is eligible for reappointment.
(d) The committee shall advise the  commission on culturally appropriate child welfare
services, including best  practices for keeping families intact, ongoing child welfare support
services and the  equitable provision of child welfare services across populations being served
Enrolled House Bill 2505 (HB 2505-B) Page 1
by state agencies,  including the department, the Oregon Health Authority and the Oregon
Youth Authority.
(e) The committee shall meet at least once every two  months, at times and places fixed
by a majority of members of the committee. The department  shall provide office space and
personnel to assist the committee as requested by the commission.
(f) The committee shall periodically  report to the commission. The reports must include
recommendations on ways the commission, the department, the Oregon  Health Authority
and the Oregon Youth Authority may execute their duties to ensure  equitable treatment of
populations receiving child welfare services. The reports may include  recommendations for
changes to policies, procedures, administrative rules or legislation to ensure  that the com-
mission and the department are effectively serving:
(A) Racial and ethnic minorities;
(B) People with disabilities;
(C) Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender,  queer and other minority gender identity com-
munities; and
(D) Other historically  disproportionately overrepresented communities in the child wel-
fare system.
(g) The commission shall take the committee’s recommendations into consideration  at
the next commission meeting or, if the agenda for  the next commission meeting has already
been posted at the time  the commission receives the committee’s recommendations, at the
following commission meeting.
(h) No later than September 1 of each  even-numbered year, the commission shall submit
a report,  in the manner provided by ORS 192.245, to the interim committees of the Legisla-
tive Assembly related to human services. The commission, in  its discretion, may submit in-
terim reports. The reports submitted under this paragraph must include information  on the
activities and recommendations of the committee and information on any actions  taken by
the commission or the department to implement recommendations of the committee.
SECTION 2.
 ORS 418.041 is amended to read:
418.041. (1) The Governor’s Child  Foster Care Advisory Commission is established[ , consisting
of 11 members appointed by the Governor ].
(2)(a) The commission consists of 13 members appointed by the Governor.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this subsection, if  a member of the commission is
a representative of the  Judicial Department, the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court shall
appoint the member.
[(2)] (3) The term of office of each member of the commission is four years,  but a member serves
at the pleasure of the Governor  or, if the member  is a representative of the Judicial Depart-
ment, at the pleasure of  the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court . Before the expiration of the
term of a member, the Governor or the Chief Justice  shall appoint a successor  whose term begins
on July 1 next following. A member is eligible for reappointment. If there is a vacancy for any cause,
the Governor or the Chief Justice  shall make an appointment to become immediately effective for
the unexpired term.
[(3)] (4)  The appointment of each  member of the commission  appointed by the Governor  is
subject to confirmation by the Senate in the manner prescribed in ORS 171.562 and 171.565.
[(4)] (5)  A member of  the commission is entitled to compensation and expenses [ as provided in
ORS 292.495. ] in the manner and amounts provided  for in ORS 292.495. Claims for compen-
sation and expenses incurred in performing the  functions of the commission shall be paid out
of funds appropriated to the commission for that purpose.
SECTION 3.
 ORS 418.043 is amended to read:
418.043. (1) The members of the Governor’s  Child Foster Care Advisory Commission must be
residents of this state  with experience and expertise in the foster care system in this state, including
but not limited to:
Enrolled House Bill 2505 (HB 2505-B) Page 2
(a) Current or former  foster [ and biological ] parents and  current  or former foster  children
[involved in the foster care system in this state ];
(b) Family members of individuals described in paragraph (a) of this subsection;
(c) Biological parents involved in the foster care system in this state;
[(b)] (d) Representatives of advocacy organizations that advocate regarding issues  pertaining to
the foster care system in this state;
[(c)] (e) Representatives of public, private, profit  and nonprofit agencies, organizations and other
entities with experience  in, interest in and responsibility for the provision of care to children in the
foster care system in this state;
[(d)] (f)  Members of the Oregon State Bar with expertise in family and juvenile dependency  law;
[(e)] (g)  Representatives of law enforcement agencies and district attorneys;
[(f)] (h)  Former employees of the Department of Human Services, Oregon Health Authority and
Department of Justice who were responsible for the administration and oversight of  the child wel-
fare and foster care systems in this state, including but  not limited to former caseworkers and for-
mer court appointed special advocates;
[(g)] (i) Representatives of the Judicial Department [ in consultation with the Chief  Justice of the
Supreme Court ]; and
[(h)] (j) Representatives of federally recognized Indian  tribes in Oregon and organizations serv-
ing Native Americans.
(2) The members of the commission shall select  one of the commission’s members to serve as
chairperson and another to serve as vice chairperson,  for terms and with duties and powers neces-
sary for the performance of the functions of the offices as the commission determines.
(3) A majority of the members of  the commission constitutes a quorum for the transaction of
business.
(4) The commission shall meet at least once every three  months at a time and place determined
by the chairperson of the commission. The commission also may  meet at other times and places
specified by the call of the chairperson or of a majority of the members of the commission.
(5) All agencies of state government, as defined in ORS 174.111, are  directed to assist the com-
mission in the performance of the commission’s duties, powers and obligations and, to  the extent
permitted by laws relating to confidentiality, to furnish information that the members of the com-
mission consider necessary in order to further  the work of the commission. [ The assistance under
this subsection may constitute the provision of staffing resources to the commission. ]
(6) The Department of Human Services  shall provide the commission, including any ad-
visory or technical committees established  under section 1 of this 2021 Act, with any neces-
sary clerical and administrative staff support, including, at a  minimum, one full-time
equivalent (FTE) policy analyst.
SECTION 4.
 ORS 418.044 is amended to read:
418.044. (1) The Governor’s Child Foster  Care Advisory Commission shall advise the Governor
[and the Director of Human Services ], the Director  of Human Services, the Director of the
Oregon Health Authority and the Director of  the Oregon Youth Authority , and make recom-
mendations for legislation,  regarding the foster care system in this state. In addition, the commission
shall study and report to the Governor and the [ director] directors  with respect to the following:
(a) Legal and policy issues pertaining to the foster care system in this state;
(b) Monitoring accountability in the foster  care system by measuring outcomes, including but
not limited to the following:
(A) Increasing the number  of children committed to the custody of the Department of Human
Services who are placed with family members, relatives or next of kin;
(B) Decreasing the number of placements  in, and removals from, substitute care for individual
children committed to the custody of the department;
(C) Decreasing the length of time children spend in substitute care;
(D) Decreasing incidences of abuse, neglect and maltreatment for children in substitute care;
Enrolled House Bill 2505 (HB 2505-B) Page 3
(E) Increasing the number of children who receive permanent placements within  24 months of
entering substitute care;
(F) Decreasing the number of children  who, upon becoming ineligible for substitute care, have
not achieved independent living status;
(G) Increasing the number of children who are placed with  adoptive parents within 12 months
of termination of the parental rights of a child’s biological parents;
(H) Reducing demographic disproportionality in substitute care;
(I) Increasing the number  of families involved in the foster care system receiving services and
assistance to make it possible for children in substitute care to safely return home; and
(J) Increasing the number of families involved in the foster care system having access to  cul-
turally relevant services;
(c) Necessary and recommended improvements to  the internal operations of the department, in-
cluding but not limited to the following:
(A) Monitoring, licensing and supervision of foster care providers;
(B) Caseload management;
(C) Procedures for investigation of abuses and deficiencies;
(D) Recruitment, training and retention of foster parents; and
(E) Quality assurance;
(d) Recommendations to  improve and expand the availability of foster care and, where applica-
ble, to provide alternatives to foster care for children who are in need of care and services;
(e) Promotion of responsible statewide advocacy for children in foster care; and
(f) Ongoing review of foster care providers in this  state and the identification of barriers to the
provision of quality care and services to children in the foster care system.
(2) In undertaking the commission’s responsibilities under subsection (1) of this section, the
commission shall consider reports, findings  and recommendations that have been or will be issued
by legislative and agency task forces,  work groups and committees that have undertaken study, re-
view or oversight of the foster care system in this state.
[(3) The commission may establish any advisory or technical  committees the commission considers
necessary to aid and advise the commission in the performance of its functions. The committees  may
be continuing or temporary committees. The commission shall determine the representation,  member-
ship, terms and organization of the committees and shall appoint the members  of the committees.
Members of  the committees are not entitled to compensation but, in the discretion of the commission,
may be  reimbursed from funds available to the commission for actual and necessary travel and other
expenses incurred by the members in the performance of official duties in the manner and  amount
provided in ORS 292.495. ]
[(4)] (3) The commission may adopt rules to carry out the provisions of this section.
SECTION 5.
The report described in section 1 of this 2021 Act is first  due no later than
September 1, 2022.
Enrolled House Bill 2505 (HB 2505-B) Page 4
Passed by House June 17, 2021
..................................................................................
Timothy G. Sekerak, Chief Clerk of House
..................................................................................
Tina Kotek, Speaker of House
Passed by Senate June 22, 2021
..................................................................................
Peter Courtney, President of Senate
Received by Governor:
........................M.,........................................................., 2021
Approved:
........................M.,........................................................., 2021
..................................................................................
Kate Brown, Governor
Filed in Office of Secretary of State:
........................M.,........................................................., 2021
..................................................................................
Shemia Fagan, Secretary of State
Enrolled House Bill 2505 (HB 2505-B) Page 5