1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
80th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2019 Regular Session
House Joint Resolution 21
Sponsored by Representative RESCHKE
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Proposes amendment to Oregon Constitution to  provide that general obligation indebtedness for
certain higher education projects must be matched by other moneys  in amount equal to at least
one-half of  amount of indebtedness in nonurban counties or two-thirds of amount of indebtedness in
other counties outside of metropolitan service districts.
Refers proposed amendment to people for their approval or rejection at next  regular general
election.
JOINT RESOLUTION
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
PARAGRAPH 1.  Section 1, Article XI-G of  the Constitution of the State of Oregon, is amended
to read:
Sec. 1.  (1) Notwithstanding the limitations contained in section 7, Article XI of  this Constitu-
tion, and in addition to other exceptions from the  limitations of such section, the credit of the state
may be loaned and indebtedness incurred in an amount not  to exceed at any time three-fourths of
one percent of the true cash value of all taxable property in the state, as determined by law.
(2) Proceeds from any loan authorized or indebtedness  incurred under this section shall be used
to provide  funds with which to acquire, construct, improve, repair, equip and furnish buildings,
structures, land and other  projects, or parts thereof, that the Legislative Assembly determines will
benefit higher education institutions or activities or community colleges authorized by law to  re-
ceive state aid.
(3) The amount of any indebtedness incurred under this section in any biennium shall  be
matched by an amount [ that is at least equal to the amount  of the indebtedness ] specified in sub-
section (4)  of this section . The matching amount must be used for the same or similar purposes
as the proceeds of the indebtedness and may  consist of moneys appropriated from the General Fund
or any other moneys available to  the constructing authority for such purposes. However, the
matching amount  may not consist of proceeds of indebtedness incurred by the state under any other
Article of this Constitution. Any matching amount appropriated from the General Fund to meet  the
requirements of this subsection must  be specifically designated therefor by the Legislative Assembly.
(4)(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this subsection, the amount  of any indebt-
edness incurred by the state under this  section must be matched by an amount that is at
least equal to:
(A) The amount of  the indebtedness, for a project that will be wholly located within the
urban growth boundary of a metropolitan service district;
(B) Two-thirds of the amount of the indebtedness, for a project that will be wholly located
in an area other than those described in subparagraph (A) or (C) of this paragraph; or
(C) One-half of the amount of the indebtedness, for a  project that will be wholly located
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 3967
HJR 21
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
in one or more nonurban counties.
(b) The Legislative Assembly  shall, by law, determine which of the matching amounts
described in paragraph (a) of this  subsection is appropriate for a project that is located in
two or more areas described in paragraph (a) of this subsection. This determination must
be based on:
(A) The ability of  the constructing authority to meet the required matching amount; and
(B) The poverty level of individuals who reside within areas served by the  constructing
authority.
(c) The Legislative Assembly shall, by law, define “nonurban county” and “urban growth
boundary of a metropolitan service district” for the purposes of this section. The  definitions
established by the Legislative  Assembly shall, to the degree practicable, conform with defi-
nitions used by the  Legislative Assembly to establish different minimum wage rates
throughout this state.
[(4)] (5)  Nothing in this section prevents  the financing of projects, or parts thereof, by a com-
bination of the  moneys available under this section, under Article XI-F(1) of this Constitution, and
from other lawful sources.
PARAGRAPH 2.
The amendment proposed by this resolution shall be submitted to  the
people for their approval or rejection  at the next regular general election held throughout
this state.
[2]