1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 316
Printed pursuant to  Senate Interim Rule 213.28 by order of the President of the Senate in conformance with pre-
session filing rules,  indicating neither advocacy nor opposition on the part of the President (at the request
of Senate Interim Committee on Education)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Directs DAS to study the method to calculate the current service level for the State
School Fund. (Flesch Readability Score: 65.1).
Requires the Oregon  Department of Administrative Services to study the method for determining
the current service level for the purpose of calculating the amount to appropriate for the  State
School Fund. Directs the department  to submit findings to the interim committees of the Legislative
Assembly related to education not later than September 15, 2026.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to the State School Fund current service level.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
The Oregon Department of Administrative Services shall study the  method
for determining the current service level for the  purpose of calculating the amount to ap-
propriate for the State School  Fund. The department shall submit a report in the manner
provided by ORS 192.245, and  may include recommendations for legislation, to the interim
committees of the Legislative Assembly related to education no  later than September 15,
2026.
SECTION 2. Section 1 of this 2025 Act is repealed on January 2, 2027.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1576