1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 3798
Sponsored by Representative BOSHART DAVIS
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act tells DPSST to give training on how to respond to fires caused by certain types
of batteries and electric vehicles. (Flesch Readability Score: 61.4).
Directs the Department of Public  Safety Standards and Training to collaborate with the State
Fire Marshal to deliver training to emergency responders on responding to fires resulting  from
lithium-ion batteries and  electric vehicles. Provides that the department shall serve as the lead
agency in delivering training.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to electric vehicle fire training for emergency responders.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Department of Public Safety Standards and Training shall collaborate
with the State Fire Marshal to deliver training to emergency responders  on responding to
fires resulting from lithium-ion batteries and  electric vehicles and the potential risks to
surrounding vegetation and structures posed by  such fires. The department shall be the lead
agency responsible for delivering training under this section.
(2) The training described under this section may be delivered independently or jointly
by the Department of Public Safety Standards and Training and the State Fire Marshal.
SECTION 2. In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there is appropri-
ated to the Department of Public Safety Standards and  Training, for the biennium beginning
July 1, 2025, out of the General Fund,  the amount of $1,000,000, to deliver the training de-
scribed under section 1 of this 2025 Act.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 4344