1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
81st OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2021 Regular Session
House Bill 3331
Sponsored by Representative SMITH DB
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Prohibits state agencies from disbursing moneys to City of Portland to pay for costs, losses  or
damages resulting from certain public demonstrations occurring  in city. If state agency has made
such disbursals, requires state agency to reduce future disbursals in amount of violative disbursal.
Declares emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to disbursals to the City of Portland; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Legislative Assembly finds and  declares that the City of Portland has
not taken  sufficient action to limit violence and destruction associated with ongoing public
demonstrations that have taken place in the city for multiple months.
(2) Notwithstanding any other law,  no state agency may disburse any moneys to the City
of Portland to pay for costs, losses or damages that  are a direct or indirect result of public
demonstrations occurring  in the city between May 2020 and the effective date of this 2021
Act.
(3) If a  state agency made a disbursal before the effective date of this 2021 Act that would
have violated subsection (2) of this section if this section had been  in effect, the state agency
shall reduce future disbursals to the City  of Portland until the amount of the violative dis-
bursal has been deducted.
(4) As used in this section, “state agency” means  any officer, board, commission, de-
partment, division or institution in the executive  or administrative branch of state govern-
ment.
SECTION 2. This 2021 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the  public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is  declared to exist, and this 2021 Act takes effect
on its passage.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2179