1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Concurrent Resolution 34
Sponsored by Senator WAGNER
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Sets bill limits and dates for bill requests  for the 2026 short session. (Flesch Readability
Score:  69.9).
Establishes limitations  and deadlines for legislative measures for the 2026 regular session of the
Eighty-third Legislative Assembly. Provides that certain labor negotiations are not legislative de-
liberations and are to be conducted under executive session.
CONCURRENT RESOLUTION
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
(1) This resolution constitutes a rule  of proceeding of the Senate and the House of Represen-
tatives of the Eighty-third Legislative Assembly.
(2) The Senate and the House of Representatives agree to the following limitations  for the 2026
regular session:
(a) Each Senator may request the Office of the Legislative Counsel to prepare, and  may submit
for introduction, no more than two drafts of measures.
(b) Each Representative may request the Office  of the Legislative Counsel to prepare, and may
submit for introduction, no more than two drafts of measures.
(c) Each interim committee of the Senate and each interim  committee of the House of Repre-
sentatives may request the  Office of the Legislative Counsel to prepare, and may submit for intro-
duction, no more than three drafts of measures.
(d) The Governor may request the Office of the Legislative Counsel  to prepare, and may submit
for introduction, no more than three drafts of measures on behalf of the executive  branch of state
government.
(e) The Chief Justice of the Supreme Court may request the Office of the Legislative  Counsel
to prepare, and may submit  for introduction, no more than three drafts of measures on behalf of the
judicial branch of state government.
(3) The limitations on introduction of measures in subsection (2) of this resolution do  not apply
to:
(a) The Joint Committee on Ways and Means, with respect to appropriation or fiscal measures;
(b) Measures requested and approved for introduction by the President of the Senate;
(c) Measures requested and approved for introduction by the House Committee on Rules; or
(d) Measures requested by the Joint Committee on Conduct, the Senate  Committee on Conduct
or the House Committee on Conduct, with respect to matters, procedures,  policies and rules within
the jurisdiction of a committee on conduct as prescribed by rule or statute.
(4) All  requests to prepare drafts of measures must be accompanied by a brief summary of the
problem sought to be addressed, the proposed solution to the problem and any other relevant  infor-
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 4996
SCR 34
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
mation about the proposed measure.
(5) The Senate and the House of Representatives shall adhere to  the following schedule and
deadlines for the 2026 regular session of the Eighty-third Legislative Assembly:
(a) Members, committees, the Governor and the Chief  Justice shall submit requests for drafts
of measures to the Office of the Legislative Counsel on or before 5 p.m. on November 21, 2025.
(b) The Office of the Legislative Counsel shall deliver drafts  of measures to requesters on or
before 5 p.m. on January 9, 2026.
(c) Requesters shall submit drafts  of measures for introduction to the Senate Desk or the House
Desk no later than 5 p.m. on January 16, 2026.
(6) The President of the Senate, the House Committee on  Rules and the Joint Committee on
Ways and Means are not subject to the deadlines described in subsection (5) of this resolution.
(7) The Joint Committee on Conduct, the Senate Committee on Conduct and the House Com-
mittee on Conduct are not subject to the  deadlines described in subsection (5) of this resolution with
respect to matters, procedures, policies and rules within the jurisdiction of a committee on  conduct
as prescribed by rule or statute.
(8) Labor negotiations  concerning employees of the legislative branch are not considered legis-
lative deliberations under  Article IV, section 14, of the Oregon Constitution, and shall be conducted
in executive session  under the Oregon Public Meetings laws in conformance with ORS 192.660 (2)(d)
and (3).
(9) The rules of the Senate and the House of Representatives apply to matters not specified  in
this resolution.
[2]