1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2024 Regular Session
Senate Bill 1575
Printed pursuant to  Senate Interim Rule 213.28 by order of the President of the Senate in conformance with pre-
session filing rules,  indicating neither advocacy nor opposition on the part of the President (at the request
of Senate Interim Committee on Judiciary for Senator Floyd Prozanski)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act says that public bodies may not have certain terms in  some types of con-
struction contracts. (Flesch Readability Score: 75.1).
Provides that a public body may not  include certain provisions relating to payment of defense
costs in a contract with a person or entity providing  architecture, landscape architecture, engi-
neering, photogrammetric mapping, transportation planning, land surveying services or related ser-
vices.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to construction agreements; creating new provisions; and amending ORS 30.140.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 30.140 is amended to read:
30.140. (1) Except to the extent provided under [ subsection (2) ] subsections (2)  and (3)  of this
section, any provision in a construction  agreement that requires a person or that person’s surety
or insurer to indemnify another against liability for [ damage arising out of death or bodily  injury to
persons or damage to property ] damages caused in whole or in part by the negligence of the
indemnitee is void.
(2) This section does not affect any  provision in a construction agreement that requires a person
or that person’s surety or insurer to indemnify another  against liability for [ damage arising out of
death or bodily injury to persons  or damage to property to the extent that the death or bodily injury
to persons or damage to property arises out  of ] damages to the extent that the damages are
caused by the fault of the indemnitor, or the fault of  the indemnitor’s agents, representatives or
subcontractors.
(3) A public body as defined in ORS 174.109, including a public body acting as part of an
intergovernmental entity formed with another state or with  a political subdivision of another
state, may not include a requirement in a contract with a person or entity  providing archi-
tecture, landscape architecture, engineering, photogrammetric  mapping, transportation
planning, land surveying services or related  services, requiring that the person or entity pay
for attorney fees, expert or investigation  expenses or other defense costs incurred by the
public body  or intergovernmental entity in defending against a claim for professional
negligence and relating to the professional services provided  by the person or entity provid-
ing architecture,  landscape architecture, engineering, photogrammetric mapping, transpor-
tation planning, land surveying services or related  services, except to the extent that the
person or entity’s liability  or fault is first determined by adjudication or alternative dispute
resolution or otherwise resolved by settlement agreement, and  not to exceed the propor-
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 218
SB 1575
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
tionate fault of the person or entity. A contractual provision that violates this subsection is
unenforceable.
[(3)] (4) As used in this section, “construction agreement” means  any written agreement for the
planning, design, construction, alteration, repair, improvement  or maintenance of any building,
highway, road excavation or other structure, project, development or improvement  attached to real
estate including moving, demolition or tunneling in connection therewith.
[(4)] (5) This section does not apply to:
(a) Any real property lease or rental agreement between a  landlord and tenant whether or not
any provision of the lease or rental agreement relates to or  involves planning, design, construction,
alteration, repair, improvement or maintenance as  long as the predominant purpose of the lease or
rental agreement  is not planning, design, construction, alteration, repair, improvement or mainte-
nance of real property; or
(b) Any personal property lease or rental agreement.
[(5)] (6) No provision of this section shall be construed to apply to a “railroad” as defined  in
ORS 824.200.
SECTION 2.
The amendments to ORS 30.140 by section 1 of this 2024 Act  apply to con-
struction agreements entered into or renewed on  or after the effective date of this 2024 Act.
[2]