80th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2019 Regular Session
Enrolled
House Bill 3064
Sponsored by Representative  PILUSO, Senator WINTERS, Representatives WILLIAMSON,
SANCHEZ, Senator MANNING JR;  Representatives BYNUM, GORSEK, HELT, KENY-GUYER,
POWER, SOLLMAN
CHAPTER .................................................
AN ACT
Relating to criminal justice entities; creating new provisions; and amending ORS 137.654, 137.656
and 137.658 and section 53, chapter 649, Oregon Laws 2013.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.  Section 53, chapter 649, Oregon Laws 2013, as  amended by section 54, chapter 649,
Oregon Laws 2013, is amended to read:
Sec. 53.  (1)(a) In consultation with the Justice Reinvestment Grant Review Committee estab-
lished under subsection (2) of this section, the Oregon Criminal Justice Commission shall administer
the Justice Reinvestment Program described in this section.  From funds appropriated to the com-
mission for purposes of the program, the  commission shall award grants to counties that establish
a process to assess offenders and provide a  continuum of community-based sanctions, services and
programs that are designed to reduce recidivism and  decrease the county’s utilization of
imprisonment in a Department of Corrections institution while protecting public  safety and holding
offenders  accountable.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this subsection, no less than 10 percent of grant funds
awarded under this section  must be distributed to community-based nonprofit organizations that
provide services to victims of crime.
(2) The Justice Reinvestment Grant Review Committee is  established, consisting of the following
members:
(a) The Governor shall appoint the following [ five] seven  members:
(A) One member shall be a district attorney.
(B) One member shall be a county sheriff.
(C) One member shall be a chief of police.
(D) One member shall be a county commissioner.
(E) One member shall be a community corrections director who is not a sheriff.
(F) Two members  shall be representatives of community-based organizations that provide
services for underserved racial, ethnic or minority communities.
(b) The Chief  Justice of the Supreme Court shall appoint one nonvoting member who is
a judge.
[(b)] (c)  The President  of the Senate shall appoint two nonvoting members from among members
of the Senate.
[(c)] (d) The Speaker of the House of Representatives shall appoint  two nonvoting members from
among members of the House of Representatives.
Enrolled House Bill 3064 (HB 3064-B) Page 1
(3)(a) A majority of the voting members of the  committee constitutes a quorum for the trans-
action of business.
(b) The committee shall elect one of its members to serve as chairperson.
(c) If there is a vacancy for any cause, the appointing authority shall make an  appointment to
become effective immediately.
(d) The committee shall meet at times and places specified by the call of the  chairperson or a
majority of the voting members of the committee.
(e) Legislative members of the committee shall be entitled to payment of  compensation and ex-
penses under ORS 171.072, payable from funds appropriated to the Legislative Assembly.
(4)(a) An application for a grant described in this section must be submitted  by a local public
safety coordinating council convened under ORS 423.560.
(b) The grant  application must include a statement of commitment, from the relevant
stakeholders of the service or program for which the county  is requesting funding and in-
cluding the  district attorney, presiding judge and community corrections director, to reduce
recidivism and decrease the county’s utilization  of imprisonment in Department of Cor-
rections facilities while protecting public safety and holding offenders accountable.
(5)(a) During a grant application period established by the commission, the  proportion of grant
funds available to  each county shall be determined in accordance with the formula used to distribute
baseline funding under ORS 423.483.
(b) At the conclusion of the grant application period,  the commission shall award grants to
counties in accordance with rules adopted by the commission. If unallocated funds  remain at the
conclusion of the grant acceptance period, the  commission may establish a supplemental grant pe-
riod and distribute the unallocated funds.
(6)(a) The commission shall regularly evaluate the community-based sanctions, services  and
programs funded  under this section.  The commission shall specifically assess the extent to
which each county is reducing utilization of  imprisonment in Department of Corrections fa-
cilities by offenders convicted of  felonies under ORS 137.717, 475.752 to 475.980, 811.182,
813.010 or 813.011.
(b) The commission shall report the results of an evaluation conducted under  this section to a
committee of the Legislative Assembly related to the judiciary.
(7)(a) Before applying for grant  funds to administer a community-based program described in
subsection  [ (9)(a)(D)] (10)(a)(D) of this section, the county must obtain the consent of the presiding
judge of the judicial district in which the county is located.
(b) A grant application to administer a community-based  program described in subsection
[(9)(a)(D)] (10)(a)(D) of this section must include the costs of appointed counsel.
(8) After consulting with the Justice Reinvestment Grant  Review Committee, the commission
shall adopt rules to administer the Justice Reinvestment Program. The rules must include:
(a) A methodology for reviewing and approving grant applications and  distributing grant funds.
Rules described in this paragraph must provide the Justice Reinvestment  Grant Review Committee
with the ability to approve grant applications[ , subject to ] for submission for  final approval by the
commission. The commission may either approve the grant  application or return the applica-
tion for reconsideration by the committee.
(b) A process for evaluating the efficacy of community-based sanctions,  services and programs
funded under this section.
(c) A requirement that the grant review committee  consider, when approving grant ap-
plications, each county’s historical reduction of utilization  of imprisonment in Department
of Corrections facilities by offenders  convicted of felonies under ORS 137.717, 475.752 to
475.980, 811.182, 813.010 or 813.011.
(d) Provisions allowing the grant review committee to submit to  the commission, and the
commission to approve, provisional funding plans for  counties applying for grants under this
section.
Enrolled House Bill 3064 (HB 3064-B) Page 2
(9)(a) If a county does not reduce utilization of imprisonment in Department of Cor-
rections facilities by offenders convicted of felonies under ORS 137.717, 475.752  to 475.980,
811.182, 813.010 or 813.011, upon request of the grant review committee, the commission shall
decline to grant the full grant amount requested  by a county, provide technical assistance,
withhold approved grant funds or terminate further distribution of the grant award.
(b) If the commission takes an action described in paragraph (a) of this  subsection, any
remaining moneys  may be redistributed by the commission through a supplemental grant
program. Priority shall be given to counties  funding programs for historically underserved
communities including rural communities,  racial, ethnic and minority communities and
tribal communities. Rural counties may apply for supplemental grants in  cooperation with
other rural counties.
[(9)] (10) As used in this section:
(a) “Community-based programs” includes:
(A) Work release programs;
(B) Structured, transitional leave programs;
(C) Evidence-based  programs designed to reduce recidivism that include the balanced adminis-
tration of sanctions, supervision and treatment;
(D) Administering a reentry court under section 29 of this 2013 Act; and
(E) Specialty courts aimed at medium-risk and high-risk offenders.
(b) “County” includes a regional collection of counties.
SECTION 2.
 ORS 137.654 is amended to read:
137.654. (1) There is established the Oregon Criminal Justice Commission  consisting of nine
members. The Governor shall appoint seven members who are subject to confirmation by the Senate
pursuant to section 4, Article III of the  Oregon Constitution. The President of the Senate shall ap-
point one state  Senator as a nonvoting member. The Speaker of the House of Representatives shall
appoint one state Representative as a nonvoting member. Members serve at the pleasure of the
appointing authority. The Governor shall appoint members of the commission consistent with  the
following:
(a) Members shall be appointed with consideration of [the different geographic regions of the
state] geographic, racial, ethnic and gender diversity .
(b) Not more than four members may  belong to the same political party. Party affiliation is de-
termined by the appropriate entry on official election registration cards.
(2)(a) The term of office of each member is four years  or until the end of a legislative member’s
legislative term, whichever occurs first. Before the expiration of the  term of a member, the ap-
pointing authority shall appoint a successor whose term begins immediately  upon the expiration of
the term of the current member.  A member is eligible for reappointment but may serve no more than
two consecutive terms.
(b) In case of  a vacancy for any cause, the appointing authority shall appoint a person to fill
the office for the unexpired term. When a person is appointed under this  paragraph, the unexpired
term may not be considered for purposes of the limitation to two consecutive terms of service.
(3) The Governor  shall appoint one of the commissioners as chairperson, to serve at the pleasure
of the  Governor. The members of the commission shall elect from among themselves a vice chair-
person who shall preside  over meetings and exercise the functions of the chairperson during absence
or disability of the chairperson.  The chairperson and vice chairperson shall execute the duties de-
termined by the commission to be necessary.
(4) The chairperson shall appoint one member, subject to the approval  of the commission, to
serve on an executive committee with the chairperson  and vice chairperson. The executive com-
mittee may exercise  the powers and responsibilities of the commission between meetings of the
commission. All action taken by the executive  committee not previously authorized must be sub-
mitted to the commission for approval at the next regular or special meeting.
(5) A majority of the voting  members of the commission constitutes a quorum for the transaction
of business.
Enrolled House Bill 3064 (HB 3064-B) Page 3
(6) The commission shall meet at least  once a month, at a time and place determined by the
commission. The commission shall also meet  at such other times and places as are specified by the
call of the chairperson. If a  majority of members, in writing, request a special meeting, the chair-
person shall designate a time for a special meeting as requested.
(7) The Governor shall appoint an executive director for the commission who shall  be in the
exempt service and who shall be responsible for the performance of duties assigned  by the commis-
sion. Subject to the State Personnel Relations Law, the  executive director may employ appropriate
staff to carry out the duties assigned by the commission.
(8) Members of the commission are entitled to expenses as  provided in ORS 292.495. Subject to
the availability of funds, members of a committee established under ORS 137.658  who are not com-
mission members may be reimbursed for actual and necessary  travel and other expenses incurred
by them in the performance of their  official duties, subject to ORS 292.495 (2). Any legislative
members are  entitled to payment of compensation and expense reimbursement under ORS 171.072,
payable from funds appropriated to the Legislative Assembly.
(9) The commission is subject to the provisions of ORS 291.201 to  291.222 and 291.232 to 291.260.
(10) The commission shall consult with  and seek advice and counsel of the Chief Justice of the
Supreme Court and the State Court Administrator on any  matter that impacts the operation of the
courts. The Chief Justice may have a representative participate in any meeting of the commission.
SECTION 3.  ORS 137.656 is amended to read:
137.656. (1) The purpose of the Oregon Criminal Justice  Commission is to improve the effec-
tiveness and  efficiency of state and local criminal justice systems by providing a centralized and
impartial forum for statewide policy development and planning.
(2) The primary  duty of the commission is to develop and maintain a state criminal justice policy
and comprehensive, long-range  plan for a coordinated state criminal justice system that encompasses
public safety, offender accountability, crime reduction and prevention and offender  treatment and
rehabilitation. The plan must include, but need not be limited to, recommendations regarding:
(a) Capacity, utilization and type of state and local prison and jail facilities;
(b) Implementation of community corrections programs;
(c) Alternatives to the use of prison and jail facilities;
(d) Appropriate use of existing facilities and programs;
(e) Whether additional or different facilities and programs are necessary;
(f) Methods  of assessing the effectiveness of juvenile and adult correctional programs, devices
and sanctions in reducing future criminal conduct by juvenile and adult offenders;
(g) Methods of reducing the risk of future criminal conduct; and
(h) The effective utilization of local public safety coordinating councils.
(3) Other duties of the commission are:
(a) To conduct joint studies by agreement with other state  agencies, boards or commissions on
any matter within the jurisdiction of the commission.
(b) To provide Oregon criminal justice analytical and statistical information  to federal agencies
and serve as  a clearinghouse and information center for the collection, preparation, analysis and
dissemination of information on state and local sentencing practices.
(c) To provide technical assistance and support to local public safety coordinating councils.
(d) To receive grant applications to start or expand drug court  programs as defined in ORS
3.450, to make rules to govern the grant process and to award grant funds according to the rules.
(e) To prepare the racial and ethnic impact statements described in ORS 137.683 and 137.685.
(f) To assess the extent to which each county is reducing racial and  ethnic disparities in
its correctional population.
(4) The commission shall establish by rule the information that must be submitted under ORS
137.010 (9) and the methods for submitting the information. A rule adopted under  this subsection
must be approved by the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court before it takes effect.
(5) The commission may:
(a) Apply for and receive gifts and grants from any public or private source.
Enrolled House Bill 3064 (HB 3064-B) Page 4
(b) Award grants from funds  appropriated by the Legislative Assembly to the commission or
from funds  otherwise available from any other source, for the purpose of carrying out the duties of
the commission.
(c) Adopt rules to carry out the provisions of this subsection.
SECTION 4.
 ORS 137.658 is amended to read:
137.658. (1) The  chairperson of the Oregon Criminal Justice Commission may create any com-
mittees within the commission as the  chairperson may think necessary. Persons who are not com-
mission members may  be appointed as members to serve on the committees with the approval of the
commission.
(2) The chairperson shall appoint members of committees created  under this section in such a
manner as to ensure representation from all segments of the criminal justice system that are  af-
fected by the work of the committee. In selecting members for committee  assignments, the chair-
person shall consider, but is not limited to, representatives from the following:
(a) The Attorney General;
(b) The Director of the Department of Corrections;
(c) The chairperson of the State Board of Parole and Post-Prison Supervision;
(d) The Superintendent of State Police;
(e) The chief administrative employee of the Psychiatric Security Review Board;
(f) The Director of Human Services;
(g) The Director of the Oregon Health Authority;
(h) The Director of the Oregon Youth Authority;
(i) Trial judges;
(j) Judges of the Oregon Supreme Court or Court of Appeals;
(k) Majority and minority parties of the House of Representatives and the Senate;
(L) District attorneys;
(m) Criminal defense attorneys;
(n) County sheriffs;
(o) County commissioners;
(p) County community corrections directors;
(q) Chiefs of police;
(r) Victims of crime;
(s) The public at large;
(t) The director of a nonprofit entity created for the purpose  of increasing understanding of the
adult and juvenile justice systems  and promotion of effective policies for prevention and control of
crime; and
(u) Private contract providers.
(3)(a) The chairperson shall establish an advisory committee for the commission.
(b) The purpose of the advisory committee is  to evaluate and report on how funds are
distributed under the Justice Reinvestment Program, with the goal  of making recommenda-
tions for legislative changes so that funds are effectively serving:
(A) Racial and ethnic minorities;
(B) Women;
(C) Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer and other  minority gender identity com-
munities; and
(D) Other historically underserved communities.
(c) When appointing members of the  advisory committee, the chairperson shall make
appointments with consideration of geographic, racial, ethnic and gender  diversity. A ma-
jority of members must  represent historically underserved communities. The members must
include:
(A) One member with expertise in program design and evaluation  and experience in data
collection and analysis of racial and ethnic demographic information.
Enrolled House Bill 3064 (HB 3064-B) Page 5
(B) Two members representing community-based service providers, one of  which must
be a victim services provider, that serve historically underserved communities.
(C) Two members  who are also members of the Justice Reinvestment Grant Review
Committee.
(D) Two members representing historically underserved communities.
(d) No later than September 15, 2020, the commission shall provide a report, to the  Gov-
ernor and to the subcommittee of  the Joint Committee on Ways and Means with authority
over the budget  of the commission, with recommendations from the advisory committee on
how the commission can increase equity in the allocation of public safety funds with  a par-
ticular focus on the Justice Reinvestment Program. The report may include but is not  lim-
ited to:
(A) Recommendations for changing grant review criteria.
(B) Recommendations for changing the data collection and reporting requirements.
(C) Recommendations on technical assistance needed by the commission.
(e) The commission may provide a per diem and reimbursement of  expenses for members
of the advisory committee.
SECTION 5.
 ORS 137.658, as amended by section 4 of this 2019 Act, is amended to read:
137.658. (1) The  chairperson of the Oregon Criminal Justice Commission may create any com-
mittees within the commission as the  chairperson may think necessary. Persons who are not com-
mission members may  be appointed as members to serve on the committees with the approval of the
commission.
(2) The chairperson shall appoint members of committees created  under this section in such a
manner as to ensure representation from all segments of the criminal justice system that are  af-
fected by the work of the committee. In selecting members for committee  assignments, the chair-
person shall consider, but is not limited to, representatives from the following:
(a) The Attorney General;
(b) The Director of the Department of Corrections;
(c) The chairperson of the State Board of Parole and Post-Prison Supervision;
(d) The Superintendent of State Police;
(e) The chief administrative employee of the Psychiatric Security Review Board;
(f) The Director of Human Services;
(g) The Director of the Oregon Health Authority;
(h) The Director of the Oregon Youth Authority;
(i) Trial judges;
(j) Judges of the Oregon Supreme Court or Court of Appeals;
(k) Majority and minority parties of the House of Representatives and the Senate;
(L) District attorneys;
(m) Criminal defense attorneys;
(n) County sheriffs;
(o) County commissioners;
(p) County community corrections directors;
(q) Chiefs of police;
(r) Victims of crime;
(s) The public at large;
(t) The director of a nonprofit entity created for the purpose  of increasing understanding of the
adult and juvenile justice systems  and promotion of effective policies for prevention and control of
crime; and
(u) Private contract providers.
[(3)(a) The chairperson shall establish an advisory committee for the commission. ]
[(b) The  purpose of the advisory committee is to evaluate and report on how funds are distributed
under the Justice Reinvestment Program, with the goal of making recommendations  for legislative
changes so that funds are effectively serving: ]
Enrolled House Bill 3064 (HB 3064-B) Page 6
[(A) Racial and ethnic minorities; ]
[(B) Women; ]
[(C) Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer and other minority  gender identity communities;
and]
[(D) Other historically underserved communities. ]
[(c) When appointing members of the advisory committee,  the chairperson shall make appointments
with consideration of geographic, racial, ethnic  and gender diversity. A majority of members must
represent historically underserved communities. The members must include: ]
[(A) One member with expertise in program design and evaluation and experience in data collection
and analysis of racial and ethnic demographic information. ]
[(B) Two members  representing community-based service providers, one of which must be a victim
services provider, that serve historically underserved communities. ]
[(C) Two members who are also members of the Justice Reinvestment Grant Review Committee. ]
[(D) Two members representing historically underserved communities. ]
[(d) No later than September 15, 2020, the commission shall provide a report,  to the Governor and
to the subcommittee of the Joint Committee on Ways and Means with authority  over the budget of the
commission, with recommendations from the advisory committee on how the commission  can increase
equity in the allocation of public safety funds with  a particular focus on the Justice Reinvestment
Program. The report may include but is not limited to: ]
[(A) Recommendations for changing grant review criteria. ]
[(B) Recommendations for changing the data collection and reporting requirements. ]
[(C) Recommendations on technical assistance needed by the commission. ]
[(e) The commission may  provide a per diem and reimbursement of expenses for members of the
advisory committee.]
SECTION 6. The amendments to ORS 137.658 by  section 5 of this 2019 Act become oper-
ative on July 1, 2023.
SECTION 7. Notwithstanding any other provision  of law, the General Fund appropriation
made to the Oregon Criminal Justice Commission  by section 1, chapter ___, Oregon Laws
2019 (Enrolled Senate Bill 5506), for the biennium beginning July 1, 2019, is  increased by
$110,000, to pay for research into increasing equity in  the allocation of Justice Reinvestment
Program funds.
Enrolled House Bill 3064 (HB 3064-B) Page 7
Passed by House June 20, 2019
..................................................................................
Timothy G. Sekerak, Chief Clerk of House
..................................................................................
Tina Kotek, Speaker of House
Passed by Senate June 29, 2019
..................................................................................
Peter Courtney, President of Senate
Received by Governor:
........................M.,........................................................., 2019
Approved:
........................M.,........................................................., 2019
..................................................................................
Kate Brown, Governor
Filed in Office of Secretary of State:
........................M.,........................................................., 2019
..................................................................................
Bev Clarno, Secretary of State
Enrolled House Bill 3064 (HB 3064-B) Page 8