1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
80th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2019 Regular Session
House Bill 3164
Sponsored by Representative SANCHEZ,  Senator DEMBROW, Representative WILLIAMSON; Senator FREDERICK
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Directs Public Defense Services Commission to distribute moneys to Metropolitan Public
Defender Services for establishment  and administration of pilot program according to specifications,
collection  of  certain program data and submission of data to commission. Directs commission to re-
view data and to report on results of pilot program to interim committees of Legislative  Assembly
related to judiciary on or before September 15, 2021.
Appropriates moneys from General Fund to Public Defense Services Commission for pilot pro-
gram.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to civil legal services for persons charged with crimes.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Public Defense Services Commission shall distribute the moneys  de-
scribed in section 2 of this 2019  Act to Metropolitan Public Defender Services for the fol-
lowing purposes:
(a) Establishing and administering  a two-year pilot program in Multnomah County and
in one rural county with the purpose of providing civil legal services to persons  charged with
criminal offenses. The provision of civil legal services must include  but is not limited to as-
sistance with issues related to housing, family law, public benefits,  financial obligations,
consumer debt and expungement.
(b) Collecting data, and submitting the data to the  Public Defense Services Commission,
concerning the number of participants  in the pilot program who, as a result of participation:
(A) Experienced increased financial stability.
(B) Experienced increased housing stability.
(C) Were able to obtain public benefits.
(D) Were able to resolve debt.
(E) Were able to expunge or set aside records of arrest, citation or conviction.
(F) Engaged in planning for family security.
(G) Experienced increased stability or exhibited  better behavior while incarcerated, in
comparison to similarly situated inmates who did not participate in the pilot program.
(2) Upon receipt of the  data concerning the pilot program described in subsection (1) of
this section, the Public Defense Services Commission  shall review the data, prepare a report
and submit the report to the interim committees  of the Legislative Assembly related to the
judiciary in the manner provided under ORS 192.245 on or before September 15, 2021.
SECTION 2.
In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there  is appropri-
ated to the Public Defense Services Commission, for the biennium beginning July 1, 2019,  out
of the General Fund, the amount of $  to be expended for the purposes described  in
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 960
HB 3164
1
2
section 1 of this 2019 Act.
[2]