1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2026 Regular Session
House Joint Resolution 201
Sponsored by Representatives JAVADI, EVANS, Senator GOLDEN, Representative  WATANABE, Senator
SOLLMAN; Representatives GAMBA, LEVY E, LIVELY, PHAM H, RIEKE SMITH, Senator PHAM K (Pre-
session filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Proposes a change to the state Constitution. Requires the names of all candidates to  be
listed on a single ballot for a primary. (Flesch Readability Score: 60.0).
Proposes an amendment to the Oregon Constitution to require that primary election ballots must
contain  the  names of all candidates of any political party affiliation for specified offices. Provides
that a registered  elector in this state may not be denied the right to vote in any primary election
in this state solely because that elector is  registered as unaffiliated with any political party. Permits
a political party to decline to  participate in a primary election, subject to certain requirements.
Designates a minor political party.
Refers the proposed amendment to the people for their approval or rejection at the next regular
general election.
JOINT RESOLUTION
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
PARAGRAPH 1.
 The Constitution of the State of Oregon is amended by creating a new  section
33 to be added to and made a part of Article II, such section to read:
SECTION 33. (1) Except as provided under paragraph (c) of subsection (3) of this section,
an elector may not be denied the right to vote in any election in  this state solely because the
elector is registered as being unaffiliated with a political party.
(2) Except as provided under paragraph (b) of subsection (3) of this  section, for any pri-
mary election in this state, all candidates for the following offices must be listed  on a single
ballot, regardless of each candidate’s political party affiliation:
(a) United  States Senator, Representative in Congress, Governor, Secretary of State,
State Treasurer, Attorney General, state Senator and state Representative; and
(b) Any  other public office designated by the law of this state to require a primary
election.
(3) For each primary election:
(a) The two candidates for each office receiving the most votes are nominated to the
general election, except as provided by law for the advancement of  more than two candidates
for an office.
(b) A political party  may decline to participate in a primary election described in sub-
section (2) of this section and nominate candidates for any office  described in subsection (2)
of this section to the general election. A  political party that declines to participate in a pri-
mary election described in subsection (2) of this section shall provide for any funding neces-
sary for  the nomination of that party’s candidates and shall ensure the fair and open
participation of any voter who is affiliated with that party to nominate any candidate.  The
Secretary of State shall  provide for the date, not more than 250 days prior to the date of the
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 8
HJR 201
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
primary election described in  subsection (2) of this section, by which a political party shall
notify the secretary that the party declines to participate in the primary election.
(c) A qualified elector is eligible to vote in  the primary election for each office related
to the jurisdiction in which the elector resides, unless that elector is registered  as being af-
filiated with a political party that has declined to participate  in the primary election in ac-
cordance with paragraph (b) of this subsection.
(4)(a) Each candidate  for an office described in subsection (2) of this section may request
that the Secretary of State:
(A) Cause to be  printed next to the candidate’s name on the primary election ballot,
general election ballot and any informational material regarding the  election provided by this
state to electors the names of not more  than three political parties in this state that have
officially endorsed the candidate for that office in that election; and
(B) Not cause to be printed the name of any political party  next to the candidate’s name
on any ballot or any informational material regarding the election provided by this state to
electors.
(b) A  political party may not endorse any candidate unless the party adopts and follows
rules that ensure the fair and open participation of any interested elector who is affiliated
with that party in making the endorsement.
(5) An assembly of electors that maintains an affiliation of  electors not greater than
one-tenth of one percent of all active registered electors in this  state shall be designated as
a minor political party.
(6) Nothing in this section may be interpreted to prohibit any candidate from being listed
on a general election ballot if that candidate obtains  a number of signatures of valid regis-
tered electors in this state to be determined by law.
(7) This section does not apply to primary elections for candidates for President of  the
United States.
PARAGRAPH 2.
The amendment proposed by this resolution shall be submitted to  the
people for their approval or rejection  at the next regular general election held throughout
this state.
[2]