79th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2018 Regular Session
Enrolled
Senate Bill 1543
Printed pursuant to Senate Interim  Rule 213.28 by order of the President of the Senate in conform-
ance with presession filing rules, indicating neither advocacy nor  opposition on the part of the
President (at the request of Senate Interim Committee on Judiciary)
CHAPTER .................................................
AN ACT
Relating to public safety; creating new provisions;  amending ORS 137.221, 137.225, 137.372, 137.540,
147.395, 147.397, 161.336, 161.390, 161.705, 162.375, 166.412, 166.436, 180.700, 423.105 and 837.365;
and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 180.700 is amended to read:
180.700. (1) The Attorney General shall appoint an advisory committee composed [ at least ] of :
(a) Representatives from local supervisory authorities, batterers’ intervention programs and
domestic violence victims’ advocacy groups ; and
(b) Persons who:
(A) Are experienced with evidence-based practices specific to reducing recidivism  that
take into account risk factors, needs and responsiveness to treatment; and
(B) Represent  the diverse groups that interact with violence prevention and batterers’
intervention programs.
(2) The Attorney General, in consultation with the advisory committee, shall adopt rules  that
establish standards for batterers’ intervention programs. The rules adopted must include, but  are
not limited to:
[(1)] (a)  Standards for contacts between the defendant and the victim;
[(2)] (b)  Standards for the dissemination of otherwise confidential medical, mental health and
treatment records;
[(3)] (c)  Standards that protect to the greatest extent practicable the confidentiality  of defend-
ants who are participating in domestic violence deferred sentencing agreements;
[(4)] (d)  A requirement that the designated batterers’  intervention program must report to the
defendant’s local supervisory authority any criminal assaults, threats to harm the victim or  any
substantial violation of the program’s rules by the defendant; and
[(5)] (e)  Standards for batterers’ intervention  programs that are most likely to end domestic vi-
olence and increase victims’ safety.
(3) The standards established by the rules  described in subsection (2) of this section
must:
(a) Consist of separate standards for  batterers’ intervention programs that address male
defendants, female defendants, defendants offending against  same-sex victims and circum-
stances in which the defendant or victim is gender nonconforming; and
Enrolled Senate Bill 1543 (SB 1543-B) Page 1
(b) Be based on scientific research and direct practice both with persons who have  per-
petrated domestic violence and with persons who have survived domestic violence.
(4) As used in this section, “supervisory authority” has the meaning given that term in
ORS 144.087.
SECTION 2.  ORS 147.397 is amended to read:
147.397. (1) Subject to the availability of funds from gifts, grants  and donations in the Sexual
Assault Victims’ Emergency Medical Response  Fund, the Department of Justice shall pay the costs
of:
(a) A complete medical assessment obtained by the victim of a sexual assault  if the victim ob-
tains the medical assessment no later than 84 hours after the sexual assault.
(b) A partial medical assessment obtained  by the victim of a sexual assault if the victim obtains
the medical assessment no later than seven days after the sexual assault.
(2) The department may not deny payment under this section for any of the following reasons:
(a) The victim of a sexual assault has not reported the assault to a law enforcement agency.
(b) The identity of a victim of a sexual assault is not readily available to the department because
forensic evidence has been collected from the victim  and preserved in a manner intended to protect
the victim’s identity.
(3) The  department shall develop a form that the victim of a sexual assault must complete if the
victim wants the department to pay for a medical  assessment as provided in subsection (1) of this
section. The department shall make copies  of the form available to providers of medical assessments.
The form must inform the victim that:
(a) A complete or partial  medical assessment can be obtained regardless of whether the victim
reports the assault to a law enforcement agency; and
(b) A complete or partial medical assessment can be performed  and evidence collected in a
manner intended to protect the victim’s identity.
(4) When the victim of a sexual assault completes  the form developed by the department under
subsection (3) of this section, the victim shall submit the form to  the provider of the medical as-
sessment. The provider shall submit the form with a bill for the medical assessment to  the depart-
ment. A provider who submits a bill under this subsection may not bill the victim or the  victim’s
insurance carrier for the medical assessment except to the extent  that the department is unable to
pay the bill due to lack of funds or declines to pay the bill.
(5) Providers of medical assessments that seek reimbursement under this section shall:
(a) Maintain records of  medical assessments that protect the identity of victims of sexual assault
and keep confidential the identity of victims who have not reported  the sexual assault to a law
enforcement agency;
(b) Store sexual assault  forensic evidence [ collection] kits and transfer custody of the kits to  a
law enforcement agency having jurisdiction  over the geographic area where the provider is located;
and
(c) Cooperate with law enforcement agencies to develop and implement procedures that protect
the identities of victims while allowing  retrieval and assessment of sexual assault forensic  evi-
dence [ collection] kits and related evidence.
(6) Law enforcement agencies that receive evidence [ collection kits ] as provided by subsection
(5) of this section shall preserve [ the kits and any related evidence for at least six months. ]:
(a) A sexual assault forensic  evidence kit for no less than 60 years after collection of the
evidence; and
(b) Any related evidence for at least six months.
(7) A provider may not charge  the department more for a complete medical assessment or a
partial medical assessment than the  maximum amounts established by the department by rule for the
assessments.
(8) The victim of a sexual assault may obtain  a medical assessment and complete and submit a
form under this  section regardless of whether the victim reports the sexual assault to a law
enforcement agency.
Enrolled Senate Bill 1543 (SB 1543-B) Page 2
(9) This section does not require the department to pay any costs of  treatment for injuries re-
sulting from the sexual assault.
(10) The department shall create, and make available  to medical assessment providers,
informational materials  describing the services payable by the fund as described in sub-
section (1) of this section. A provider shall ensure that the informational  materials are made
available to sexual assault victims.
[(10)] (11) The department may adopt rules necessary to carry out the provisions of this  section.
SECTION 3.  ORS 147.395 is amended to read:
147.395. As used in ORS 147.397:
(1) “Complete medical assessment” means an assessment that consists of:
(a) A medical examination;
(b) The collection of forensic evidence using an evidence collection kit approved by the  De-
partment of State Police; and
(c) The offering and, if requested, provision of emergency contraception,  sexually transmitted
disease prevention and, for a victim who is 17 years  of age or younger, prescriptions for emergency
contraception.
(2) “Medical assessment” means a complete or partial medical assessment.
(3) “Partial medical assessment” means an assessment that consists of:
(a) A medical examination; and
(b) The  offering and, if requested, provision of emergency contraception, sexually transmitted
disease prevention and, for a victim who is 17 years  of age or younger, prescriptions for emergency
contraception.
(4) “Sexual assault forensic evidence kit” has the meaning given that  term in ORS
181A.323.
SECTION 4.
 ORS 161.390 is amended to read:
161.390. (1) The Oregon Health Authority shall adopt rules for the assignment  of persons to
state mental hospitals or secure intensive community inpatient  facilities under ORS 161.365 and
161.370 and for establishing standards for evaluation and treatment of persons  committed to a state
hospital or a secure intensive community inpatient facility or ordered to a community  mental health
program under ORS 161.315 to 161.351.
(2) When  the Psychiatric Security Review Board requires the preparation of a predischarge or
preconditional release plan before a  hearing or as a condition of granting discharge or conditional
release for a person committed under ORS 161.315 to 161.351 to a  state hospital or a secure inten-
sive community inpatient facility for custody, care and treatment, the authority  is responsible for
and shall prepare the plan.
(3) In carrying out a conditional release plan  prepared under subsection (2) of this section, the
authority may contract  with a community mental health program, other public agency or private
corporation or an individual to  provide supervision and treatment for the conditionally released
person.
(4)(a) The board shall maintain and keep current the medical, social and criminal history of  all
persons committed to its jurisdiction. The confidentiality  of records maintained by the board shall
be determined pursuant to ORS 192.338, 192.345 and 192.355.
(b) Except as otherwise  provided by law, upon request of the board, a state hospital, a
community mental health program  and any other health care service provider shall provide
the board with all medical records pertaining to a person  committed to the jurisdiction of
the board.
(5) The evidentiary phase of a hearing conducted by the board under ORS 161.315  to 161.351 is
not a deliberation for purposes of ORS 192.690.
SECTION 5.  ORS 161.336 is amended to read:
161.336. (1)(a) When a person  is conditionally released under ORS 161.315 to 161.351, the person
is subject  to those supervisory orders of the Psychiatric Security Review Board as are in the best
interests of justice, the protection of society and the welfare of the person.
Enrolled Senate Bill 1543 (SB 1543-B) Page 3
(b) An order of conditional release entered by the board may  designate any person or state,
county or local agency  capable of supervising the person upon release, subject to the conditions
described in the order of conditional release.
(c) Prior to  the designation, the board shall notify the person or state, county or local agency
to whom conditional release is contemplated and provide  the person or state, county or local agency
an opportunity to be heard.
(d) After receiving an order  entered under this section, the person or state, county or local
agency designated in the order shall assume supervision of the  person in accordance with the con-
ditions described in the order and any modifications of the conditions ordered by the board.
(2) Conditions of  release contained in orders entered under this section may be modified from
time to time and conditional releases may be terminated as provided in ORS 161.351.
(3)(a) As  a condition of release, the person may be required to report to any state or local
mental health facility for evaluation. Whenever medical, psychiatric  or psychological treatment is
recommended, the order may  require the person, as a condition of release, to cooperate with and
accept the treatment from the facility.
(b) The facility to which the person has been referred for evaluation shall  perform the evalu-
ation and  submit a written report of its findings to the board. If the facility finds that treatment of
the person is appropriate, it shall include its recommendations for  treatment in the report to the
board.
(c) Whenever treatment is provided by the facility, it shall furnish reports  to the board on a
regular basis concerning the progress of the person.
(d) Copies of all reports submitted to the board pursuant to this section shall be furnished to
the person and the person’s counsel. The confidentiality of  these reports is determined pursuant to
ORS 192.338, 192.345 and 192.355.
(e) The facility shall comply with the  conditional release order and any modifications of the
conditions ordered by the board.
[(4)(a) If at any time while the person is under the jurisdiction of the board it  appears to the board
or its chairperson that the person has violated the terms of the conditional release or that the  mental
health of  the individual has changed, the board or its chairperson may order the person returned for
evaluation or treatment to a state hospital or, if the person is under 18 years of age,  to a secure in-
tensive community inpatient facility. A written order of the board, or its chairperson on behalf of  the
board, is sufficient  warrant for any law enforcement officer to take into custody such person and
transport the person accordingly.  A sheriff, municipal police officer, constable, parole and probation
officer, prison official or  other peace officer shall execute the order, and the person shall be returned
as soon as practicable to the state hospital  or secure intensive community inpatient facility designated
in the order. ]
(4)(a)(A) A  written or electronic order for the return of a person on conditional release
to a state hospital or other facility designated by the supervising entity or, if the person  is
under 18 years of age,  to a secure intensive community inpatient facility or other facility
designated by the supervising entity, may be issued by:
(i) The supervising entity;
(ii) A person designated by the supervising  entity, if the designation is made as part of
a written policy; or
(iii) The community mental  health program director, if the person has absconded from
conditional release.
(B) An order described in this paragraph may be issued when the supervising  entity, the
authorized designee or, if the person  has absconded, the community mental health program
director, has determined that:
(i) The person has violated the terms of conditional release; or
(ii) The mental health of the person has  changed such that the supervising entity, or, if
applicable, the authorized designee or  the community mental health program director, rea-
sonably believes that the person may no longer be fit for conditional release.
Enrolled Senate Bill 1543 (SB 1543-B) Page 4
(C) A written order under this paragraph is sufficient warrant for any law enforcement
officer to take  into custody and transport the person named in the order. A peace officer
shall execute the order and the person  shall be transported as described in paragraph (c) of
this subsection.
(b) [ The community mental health  program director ] A peace officer , the director of the facility
providing treatment to a person on  conditional release[ , any peace officer ] or any person responsible
for the supervision of  a person on conditional release may take a person on conditional release into
custody , or  request that the person be taken into custody , if there is reasonable cause to believe
the person is a substantial danger to others because of a [ qualifying] mental disorder and that  the
person is in need of immediate care, custody or  treatment. [ Any person taken into custody pursuant
to this subsection shall be transported as soon  as practicable to a state hospital or, if the person is
under 18 years of age, to a secure intensive community inpatient facility. ]
(c) When a person is taken into custody by a peace  officer under this subsection, the
agency employing the  peace officer shall cause the person, as soon as practicable, to be
transported to a state hospital or other facility designated by  the supervising entity. If the
person was  taken into custody pursuant to an order described in paragraph (a) of this sub-
section, the supervising entity shall facilitate the reimbursement of reasonable costs of the
transport to the agency employing the peace officer.
[(c)] (d) Within 20 days following the return of the person to a state  hospital or secure intensive
community inpatient facility under this subsection, the board shall conduct a hearing. The board
shall provide notice of the hearing to the person,  the attorney representing the person and the At-
torney General. The state must prove by a preponderance  of the evidence the person’s unfitness for
conditional release. The hearing shall be conducted in accordance with ORS 161.346.
(e) As  used in this subsection, “supervising entity” means the board or the chairperson
or executive director of the board.
(5)(a) Any person conditionally released under this section may apply to the board for discharge
from or  modification of an order of conditional release on the ground that the person is no longer
affected by a qualifying mental disorder or,  if still so affected, no longer presents a substantial
danger to others and no longer requires supervision, medication, care or treatment. Notice of the
hearing on an application for  discharge or modification of an order of conditional release shall be
made to the Attorney General. The applicant, at the  hearing pursuant to this subsection, must prove
by a preponderance of the evidence the applicant’s fitness for discharge or modification of the  order
of conditional release. Applications by  the person for discharge or modification of conditional re-
lease may not be filed more often than once every six months.
(b) Upon application by any  person or agency responsible for supervision or treatment pursuant
to an order of  conditional release, the board shall conduct a hearing to determine if the conditions
of release  shall be continued, modified or terminated. The application shall be accompanied by a
report setting forth the facts supporting the application.
(6) A person who has spent five  years on conditional release shall be brought before the board
for hearing within 30 days before the expiration of the five-year period. The board shall review  the
person’s status and  determine whether the person should be discharged from the jurisdiction of the
board.
SECTION 6.
 ORS 837.365 is amended to read:
837.365. (1) Except as provided in subsection [ (2)] (3)  of this  section, a person may not inten-
tionally, knowingly or recklessly operate or cause to be operated  an unmanned aircraft system that
is:
(a) Capable of firing a bullet or projectile ; or
(b) Specifically designed or modified to cause, and is presently capable  of causing, serious
physical injury as defined in ORS 161.015.  [otherwise operate or cause to be operated an unmanned
aircraft system in a manner that causes the system to  function as a dangerous weapon as defined in
ORS 161.015.]
Enrolled Senate Bill 1543 (SB 1543-B) Page 5
(2)(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this subsection,  violation of subsection (1)
of this section is a Class A misdemeanor.
(b) Violation of subsection (1) of this section is a Class C  felony if the person intentionally,
knowingly or recklessly operates an unmanned aircraft system [ to fire ] and the unmanned aircraft
system fires  a  bullet or projectile . [ or otherwise operates an unmanned aircraft system in a manner
that causes the system to  function as a dangerous weapon as defined in ORS 161.015, violation of
subsection (1) of this section is a Class C felony. ]
(c) Violation of subsection (1) of this section is a Class  B felony if the person intentionally,
knowingly or recklessly operates an unmanned aircraft system [ to fire ] and the unmanned aircraft
system:
(A) Fires  a bullet or projectile  that causes serious physical  injury, as defined in ORS
161.015, to another person; or
(B)(i) Is specifically designed or modified to cause, and  is presently capable of causing,
serious physical injury as defined in ORS 161.015; and
(ii) The design or modification causes serious physical injury, as defined  in ORS 161.015,
to another person.  [ or otherwise operates an unmanned aircraft system in  a manner that causes the
system to function as a dangerous weapon as defined in ORS 161.015,  and the operation of the un-
manned aircraft system causes  serious physical injury to another person as both terms are defined in
ORS 161.015, violation of subsection (1) of this section is a Class B felony. ]
(3) Subsection (1) of this section does not apply if:
(a) The  person uses the unmanned aircraft system to release, discharge, propel or eject a non-
lethal projectile for purposes other than to injure or kill persons or animals;
(b) The person uses the unmanned aircraft system for nonrecreational purposes in compliance
with specific authorization from the Federal Aviation Administration;
(c) The person notifies the Oregon Department of Aviation, the Oregon State Police  and any
other agency that issues a  permit or license for the activity requiring the use of the unmanned
aircraft system of the time and location at which the person intends  to use an unmanned aircraft
system that is  capable of releasing, discharging, propelling or ejecting a projectile at least five days
before the person uses the system;
(d) If the person  intends to use an unmanned aircraft system that is capable of releasing, dis-
charging, propelling or ejecting a  projectile in an area open to the public, the person provides rea-
sonable notice to the public of the time and location at which the  person intends to use the
unmanned aircraft system; and
(e) The person maintains a liability insurance policy in an amount not less than $1  million that
covers injury resulting from use of the unmanned aircraft system.
(4) The notification requirement of subsection (3)(c) of this section does not apply to:
(a) A career school licensed under ORS 345.010 to 345.450;
(b) A community college as defined in ORS 341.005;
(c) [ An education service district as defined in ORS 334.003 ] A school ;
(d) The Oregon Health and Science University;
(e) A public university listed in ORS 352.002; or
(f) An institution that is exempt from ORS 348.594 to 348.615 under ORS 348.597 (2).
(5) Notwithstanding subsection (3) of this section, a  person may not use an unmanned aircraft
system that is capable of releasing, discharging, propelling  or ejecting a projectile for purposes of
crowd management.
(6) As used  in this section, “school” means a public or private institution of learning
providing instruction at levels kindergarten through grade 12, or their equivalents.
SECTION 7.
 ORS 137.221 is amended to read:
137.221. (1) Notwithstanding ORS 138.540, a court may vacate a  judgment of conviction for the
crime of prostitution under ORS 167.007 or for violating a municipal prostitution ordinance  as
described in this section.
Enrolled Senate Bill 1543 (SB 1543-B) Page 6
(2)(a) A person may  request vacation of a judgment of conviction for prostitution by filing a
motion in the county of conviction. The motion may be  filed at least 21 days after the judgment of
conviction is entered.
(b) A copy of the motion shall be served on the district attorney.
(c) The motion must contain an explanation of facts supporting  a claim that the person was the
victim of sex trafficking  at or around the time of the conduct giving rise to the prostitution con-
viction. The motion must further contain an explanation of why  those facts were not presented to
the trial court.
(3) Upon receiving the  motion described in subsection (2) of this section, the court shall hold a
hearing. At the hearing, the  person has the burden of proof and may present evidence that, at or
around the time of the conduct giving rise to the  prostitution conviction, the person was the victim
of sex trafficking. The court shall consider  any evidence the court deems of sufficient credibility and
probative value in  determining whether the person was a victim of sex trafficking. The evidence
may include, but is not limited to:
(a) Certified records of a state or federal  court proceeding demonstrating that the person was
a victim of sex trafficking;
(b) Certified records from federal immigration proceedings recognizing  the person as a victim
of sex trafficking; and
(c) A sworn statement from a trained professional staff member of a victim services organiza-
tion, an attorney, a member of  the clergy or a medical or other professional, certifying that the
person has sought assistance addressing trauma associated with being a sex trafficking victim.
(4) If the court finds, by clear and convincing evidence, that  the person was the victim of sex
trafficking at or around the time of the  conduct giving rise to the prostitution conviction, the court
shall grant the motion.
(5) If the court grants a motion under this section,  the court shall vacate the judgment of con-
viction for prostitution and may make other orders as the court considers appropriate.
(6) If the court grants a motion under this section while an appeal  of the judgment of conviction
is pending, the court shall immediately forward a copy of the vacation  order to the appellate court.
(7) As used in this section[ ,]:
(a) “Municipal prostitution ordinance” means a municipal ordinance  prohibiting a person
from engaging in, or offering or agreeing to engage in, sexual  conduct or sexual contact in
return for a fee.
(b) “Sex trafficking”  means the use of force, intimidation, fraud or coercion to cause a person
to engage, or attempt to engage, in a commercial sex act.
SECTION 8.
 ORS 423.105 is amended to read:
423.105. (1) As used in this section:
(a) “Collected moneys” means moneys that  have been collected from an inmate trust account
by the Department of Corrections pursuant to this section.
(b) “Court-ordered financial obligation” means:
(A) A compensatory fine imposed pursuant to ORS 137.101, an award of restitution as  defined
in ORS 137.103 or any other fines, fees or court-appointed attorney fees imposed in a criminal action;
(B) A child support obligation;
(C) A civil judgment including a money award for a crime victim entered against an  inmate re-
sulting from a crime committed by the inmate; or
(D) A civil judgment including a money award  entered against an inmate resulting from an
action for the inmate’s assault or battery of a Department of Corrections or Oregon  Corrections
Enterprises employee.
(c) “Eligible moneys” means moneys deposited in  an inmate trust account that are subject to
collection under this section, including but not limited  to inmate performance monetary awards and
moneys received from  an inmate’s family members or friends. “Eligible moneys” does not include
protected moneys.
Enrolled Senate Bill 1543 (SB 1543-B) Page 7
(d) “Inmate” means a  person who is at least 18 years of age and in the physical custody of the
Department of Corrections. “Inmate” does not include:
(A) A  person on leave from prison due to participation in an alternative incarceration program
established under ORS 421.504 or short-term transitional leave under ORS 421.168.
(B) A person transferred into or out of  department custody pursuant to an interstate corrections
compact.
(C) A person in the physical custody of the Oregon Youth Authority.
(D) A person in the physical custody of a county jail or other county detention facility.
(e) “Protected moneys”  means moneys deposited in an inmate trust account that are not subject
to collection under state or federal law or under this section including but not limited to:
(A) Disability benefits for veterans;
(B) Moneys received from a Native American tribe or tribal government;
(C) Moneys dedicated for medical, dental or optical expenses or emergency trips;
(D) Railroad retirement benefits; or
(E) Moneys paid as compensation to an inmate in a prison work program established under the
Prison Industries Enhancement Certification Program, or a successor program designated by the
United States Director of the Bureau of Justice Assistance pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1761.
(2)(a) The Department of Corrections shall  collect eligible moneys from an inmate trust account
if the inmate owes court-ordered financial obligations as described in this section.
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the department may deduct a fixed
percentage of each inmate  performance monetary award made to an inmate, to be credited to a
general victims assistance fund, before crediting the  remainder of the award to the inmate trust
account.
(3)(a) The Department of Justice and the  Judicial Department shall provide an accounting to the
Department of Corrections of court-ordered financial obligations, if any, owed by each  inmate. The
accounting records may be provided electronically in a format agreed upon by the departments.
(b) Upon receipt of the accounting records described in paragraph (a) of  this subsection, the
Department of Corrections shall collect a portion of  eligible moneys from the inmate trust account
of each inmate as follows:
(A) Until an inmate not sentenced to  death or to life imprisonment without the possibility of
release or parole has $500 in a transitional fund to facilitate  reentry after release, 10 percent of
eligible moneys shall be collected for court-ordered financial obligations and  five percent of eligible
moneys shall be collected and transferred to the inmate’s transitional fund.
(B) After the inmate has at  least $500 in the transitional fund, or if the inmate has been sen-
tenced to death or  to life imprisonment without the possibility of release or parole, the department
shall collect 15 percent of eligible moneys for court-ordered financial obligations.
(C) After court-ordered financial obligations have been paid, an inmate not sentenced  to death
or to  life imprisonment without the possibility of release or parole may elect to continue to transfer
five percent of eligible moneys into the transitional fund.
(c) Notwithstanding ORS 18.615  or any other provision of law, while moneys held in an
inmate’s transitional fund described in this subsection remain within the custody  or control
of the Department of Corrections, those moneys are neither assignable nor subject  to exe-
cution, garnishment, attachment or any other process.
(4) There are three levels of priority for  the application of collected moneys to court-ordered
financial obligations, with Level  I obligations having the highest priority and Level III obligations
having the lowest priority. The levels are as follows:
(a) Level I obligations are compensatory fines imposed pursuant to ORS  137.101, awards of
restitution defined in ORS 137.103 and fines, fees  or court-appointed attorney fees imposed in a
criminal action.
(b) Level II obligations are child support obligations  and civil judgments including a money
award for a crime victim entered against an inmate resulting  from a crime committed by the inmate.
Enrolled Senate Bill 1543 (SB 1543-B) Page 8
(c) Level III obligations  are civil judgments including a money award entered against an inmate
resulting from  an action for the inmate’s assault or battery of a Department of Corrections or
Oregon Corrections Enterprises employee.
(5)(a) After receiving  the accounting records described in subsection (3) of this section, the De-
partment of Corrections shall disburse the collected moneys for  court-ordered financial obligations
to the Department of Justice and the Judicial Department.
(b) The Department of Justice  and the Judicial Department shall apply the collected moneys
received from the  Department of Corrections under this subsection to an inmate’s court-ordered fi-
nancial obligations according to the priority levels of the obligations.
(6)(a) The Department of Justice may create a subaccount in which to deposit the collected
moneys received from the Department of Corrections under this section.
(b) The Judicial Department may create a subaccount in which to deposit the collected moneys
received from the Department of Corrections under this section.
(c) The Department of Corrections  may create subaccounts for the purposes of storing collected
moneys prior to disbursement under this section.
(7) The Department of Corrections, the Department  of Justice and the Judicial Department may
adopt rules to implement this section.
SECTION 9.  ORS 162.375 is amended to read:
162.375. (1) A person commits the crime of initiating a false report  if the person knowingly ini-
tiates a false alarm or report that is  transmitted to a fire department, law enforcement agency or
other organization that deals with emergencies involving danger to life or property.
(2) Initiating a false report is a Class A misdemeanor.
(3)(a) The court shall include in the sentence of any  person convicted under this section a re-
quirement that the person repay the costs incurred in  responding to and investigating the false re-
port.
(b) If the response to the  false report involved the deployment of a law enforcement special
weapons and tactics (SWAT) team or a similar law enforcement group,  the court shall impose, and
may not suspend, a term of incarceration of :
(A) At least 10 days.
(B) At least 30 days if the deployment resulted in death or serious physical  injury to
another person.
SECTION 10.
 ORS 137.540 is amended to read:
137.540. (1) The court may sentence the defendant to probation subject to the  following general
conditions unless specifically deleted by the court. The probationer shall:
(a) Pay supervision fees, fines, restitution or other fees ordered by the court.
(b) Not use or possess controlled substances except pursuant to a medical prescription.
(c) Submit to testing for controlled substance, cannabis or alcohol use  if the probationer has a
history of substance abuse or if there is a reasonable suspicion that the  probationer has illegally
used controlled substances.
(d) Participate in a substance abuse  evaluation as directed by the supervising officer and follow
the recommendations of the evaluator if there are reasonable grounds to believe  there is a history
of substance abuse.
(e) Remain in the State  of Oregon until written permission to leave is granted by the Depart-
ment of Corrections or a county community corrections agency.
(f) If physically able, find and maintain gainful full-time employment, approved schooling, or  a
full-time combination  of both. Any waiver of this requirement must be based on a finding by the
court stating the reasons for the waiver.
(g) Change neither employment nor residence without prior  permission from the Department of
Corrections or a county community corrections agency.
(h) Permit the parole and probation officer to visit the  probationer or the probationer’s work
site or residence and to conduct  a walk-through of the common areas and of the rooms in the resi-
dence occupied by or under the control of the probationer.
Enrolled Senate Bill 1543 (SB 1543-B) Page 9
(i) Consent to the search of person, vehicle or premises upon the request of a representative of
the supervising officer if the supervising officer has reasonable  grounds to believe that evidence of
a violation will be found,  and submit to fingerprinting or photographing, or both, when requested
by the Department of Corrections or a county community corrections  agency for supervision pur-
poses.
(j) Obey all laws, municipal, county, state and federal.
(k) Promptly and truthfully answer all reasonable inquiries  by the Department of Corrections
or a county community corrections agency.
(L) Not possess weapons, firearms or dangerous animals.
(m) Report as required and abide by the direction of the supervising officer.
(n) If recommended  by the supervising officer, successfully complete a sex offender treatment
program approved by  the supervising officer and submit to polygraph examinations at the direction
of the supervising officer if the probationer:
(A) Is under supervision for a sex offense under ORS 163.305 to 163.467;
(B) Was previously convicted of a sex offense under ORS 163.305 to 163.467; or
(C) Was previously convicted in another jurisdiction  of an offense that would constitute a sex
offense under ORS 163.305 to 163.467 if committed in this state.
(o) Participate in a mental health evaluation as directed by the supervising officer  and follow
the recommendation of the evaluator.
(p) If required to report as a sex offender under ORS 163A.015, report with the Department  of
State Police, a city police department, a county sheriff’s office or the supervising agency:
(A) When supervision begins;
(B) Within 10 days of a change in residence;
(C) Once each year within 10 days of the probationer’s date of birth;
(D) Within 10 days of the  first day the person works at, carries on a vocation at or attends an
institution of higher education; and
(E) Within 10 days of  a change in work, vocation or attendance status at an institution of higher
education.
(q) Submit to a risk  and needs assessment as directed by the supervising officer and follow
reasonable recommendations resulting from the assessment .
(2) In addition to the general  conditions, the court may impose any special conditions of pro-
bation that are reasonably related to the crime of conviction or the needs of the probationer  for the
protection of the public or reformation of the  probationer, or both, including, but not limited to, that
the probationer shall:
(a) For crimes committed prior to November 1, 1989,  and misdemeanors committed on or after
November 1, 1989,  be confined to the county jail or be restricted to the probationer’s own residence
or to the premises thereof,  or be subject to any combination of such confinement and restriction,
such confinement or restriction or combination thereof to be for a period not to exceed  one year
or one-half of the maximum period  of confinement that could be imposed for the offense for which
the defendant is convicted, whichever is the lesser.
(b) For felonies committed on or after November 1, 1989:
(A) Be confined in  the county jail, or be subject to other custodial sanctions under community
supervision, or both, as provided by rules of the Oregon Criminal Justice Commission; and
(B) Comply with any special conditions of probation that are imposed  by the supervising officer
in accordance with subsection (9) of this section.
(c) For crimes committed on or after December 5, 1996, sell  any assets of the probationer as
specifically ordered by the court in order to pay restitution.
(d) For crimes constituting delivery of a controlled  substance, as those terms are defined in ORS
475.005, or for telephonic harassment under ORS 166.090, or for  crimes involving domestic violence,
as defined in ORS 135.230, be prohibited  from using Internet websites that provide anonymous text
message services.
Enrolled Senate Bill 1543 (SB 1543-B) Page 10
(3)(a) If a person is released  on probation following conviction of stalking under ORS 163.732
(2)(b) or violating a court’s stalking protective  order under ORS 163.750 (2)(b), the court may include
as a special condition of the person’s probation reasonable residency restrictions.
(b) If the court imposes the special condition of probation described in this subsection  and if at
any time during  the period of probation the victim moves to a location that causes the probationer
to be in violation of the special condition of probation, the  court may not require the probationer
to change the probationer’s residence in order to comply with the special condition of probation.
(4) When a person who is a  sex offender is released on probation, the court shall impose as a
special condition of  probation that the person not reside in any dwelling in which another sex
offender who is on probation,  parole or post-prison supervision resides, without the approval of the
person’s supervising parole and probation officer, or in which more than one other sex offender  who
is on probation, parole or post-prison supervision resides, without the  approval of the director of the
probation agency that is  supervising the person or of the county manager of the Department of
Corrections, or a designee of the  director or manager. As soon as practicable, the supervising parole
and probation officer  of a person subject to the requirements of this subsection shall review the
person’s living arrangement with the person’s sex offender treatment provider to ensure that the
arrangement supports the goals of offender rehabilitation and community safety. As used  in this
subsection:
(a) “Dwelling” has the meaning given that term in ORS 469B.100.
(b) “Dwelling” does not include a residential treatment facility or a halfway house.
(c) “Halfway house” means a publicly or privately operated profit or nonprofit residential  facil-
ity that provides rehabilitative care and treatment for sex offenders.
(d) “Sex offender” has the meaning given that term in ORS 163A.005.
(5)(a) If the person is released on probation following conviction of a sex crime,  as defined in
ORS 163A.005,  or an assault, as defined in ORS 163.175 or 163.185, and the victim was under 18
years of  age, the court, if requested by the victim, shall include as a special condition of the person’s
probation that the person not reside within three miles of the victim unless:
(A) The victim resides in a county having a population of less than 130,000  and the person is
required to reside in that county;
(B) The person demonstrates to the court by a preponderance of the evidence that  no mental
intimidation or pressure was brought to bear during the commission of the crime;
(C) The person demonstrates to the court by a preponderance of the evidence that imposition
of the condition will deprive the person of a residence that would be materially significant in aiding
in the rehabilitation of the person or in the success of the probation; or
(D) The  person resides in a halfway house. As used in this subparagraph, “halfway house” means
a publicly or privately operated profit or nonprofit residential facility  that provides rehabilitative
care and treatment for sex offenders.
(b) A victim may request imposition of the  special condition of probation described in this sub-
section at the time of sentencing in person or through the prosecuting attorney.
(c) If the court imposes the special condition of probation described in this subsection and  if at
any time during the period of probation the victim moves to within three miles of  the probationer’s
residence, the court may not require the  probationer to change the probationer’s residence in order
to comply with the special condition of probation.
(6) When a person who is a sex offender, as defined in ORS  163A.005, is released on probation,
the Department of Corrections or  the county community corrections agency, whichever is appro-
priate, shall notify the city police department,  if the person is going to reside within a city, and the
county sheriff’s office of the county in which  the person is going to reside of the person’s release
and the conditions of the person’s release.
(7) Failure to abide by all  general and special conditions of probation may result in arrest,
modification of conditions, revocation  of probation or imposition of structured, intermediate sanc-
tions in accordance with rules adopted under ORS 137.595.
Enrolled Senate Bill 1543 (SB 1543-B) Page 11
(8) The court may order that probation be supervised by the court. If the  court orders that
probation be supervised by the court, the defendant  shall pay a fee of $100 to the court. Fees im-
posed under this subsection in the circuit court shall be deposited by the  clerk of the court in the
General Fund. Fees imposed in a justice court under this subsection shall be paid to  the county
treasurer. Fees imposed in a  municipal court under this subsection shall be paid to the city treas-
urer.
(9)(a) The court may at any time modify the conditions of probation.
(b) When the  court orders a defendant placed under the supervision of the Department of Cor-
rections or a community corrections  agency, the supervising officer may file with the court a pro-
posed modification to the special conditions of probation.  The supervising officer shall provide a
copy of the proposed modification to  the district attorney and the probationer. If the district attor-
ney:
(A) Files an objection to the proposed modification less than five judicial days after the proposed
modification was filed, the court shall schedule a hearing no later than 10 judicial days after  the
proposed modification was filed, unless the court finds good cause to  schedule a hearing at a later
time.
(B) Does not file an objection to the proposed modification less  than five judicial days after the
proposed modification was filed, the proposed modification becomes effective  five judicial days after
the proposed modification was filed.
(10) A court may not order revocation of probation as a result of the probationer’s  failure to
pay restitution unless the court determines from  the totality of the circumstances that the purposes
of the probation are not being served.
(11) It is not a cause  for revocation of probation that the probationer failed to apply for or ac-
cept employment at any workplace where there is a  labor dispute in progress. As used in this sub-
section, “labor dispute” has the meaning for that term provided in ORS 662.010.
(12)(a) If the court determines that a defendant has violated the terms  of probation, the court
shall collect a $25 fee from the defendant and may impose a fee for the costs of  extraditing the de-
fendant to  this state for the probation violation proceeding if the defendant left the state in violation
of the conditions of the defendant’s probation. The fees imposed  under this subsection become part
of the judgment and may be collected in the same manner as a fine.
(b) Probation violation fees collected under this subsection in the circuit court  shall be depos-
ited by the clerk of the court in the General Fund. Extradition cost fees collected  in the circuit
court under this subsection shall  be deposited by the clerk of the court in the Arrest and Return
Account established by ORS 133.865. Fees  collected in a justice court under this subsection shall
be paid to the county treasurer.  Fees collected in a municipal court under this subsection shall be
paid to the city treasurer.
(13) As used in  this section, “attends,” “institution of higher education,” “works” and “carries
on a vocation” have the meanings given those terms in ORS 163A.005.
SECTION 11.
 ORS 161.705 is amended to read:
161.705. (1) Notwithstanding ORS 161.525, the court may enter judgment of conviction  for a
Class A misdemeanor and make disposition accordingly when:
[(1)(a)] (a)(A)  A person is convicted of any Class C felony; or
[(b)] (B)  A person convicted of a Class C felony [ described in paragraph (a) of  this subsection ],
of possession or delivery of marijuana or a marijuana item as defined in ORS 475B.015  constituting
a Class B felony, of possession of a controlled substance constituting a Class B felony  or of a
Class A felony pursuant to ORS 166.720, has successfully completed a sentence of probation; and
[(2)] (b) The court, considering the nature and circumstances of the crime and the history and
character of the defendant, believes that [ it] a felony conviction  would be unduly  harsh [ to sentence
the defendant for a felony ].
(2) The entry of judgment of conviction for a Class A misdemeanor under  this section
may be made:
Enrolled Senate Bill 1543 (SB 1543-B) Page 12
(a) At the time of conviction, for offenses described in subsection (1)(a)(A) of this section;
or
(b) At any time after the sentence of probation has been completed,  for offenses de-
scribed in subsection (1)(a)(B) of this section.
SECTION 12.  ORS 137.225 is amended to read:
137.225. (1)(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this subsection, at any time after the lapse
of three years from the date of pronouncement of judgment, any defendant who  has fully complied
with and  performed the sentence of the court and whose conviction is described in subsection (5)
of this section by motion may apply to the  court where the conviction was entered for entry of an
order setting aside the conviction. A person who is  still under supervision, or who is still
incarcerated, as part of the sentence for the  offense that is the subject of the motion has not fully
complied with or performed the sentence of the court.
(b) At any time after the lapse of one year from the date of any arrest, issuance of a  criminal
citation or criminal charge, if no accusatory instrument was filed, or at any time after  an acquittal
or a dismissal  of the charge, the arrested, cited or charged person may apply to the court that would
have jurisdiction over the crime for which the person  was arrested, cited or charged, for entry of
an order setting aside the record of the arrest, citation or charge. For the purpose of computing  the
one-year period, time  during which the person has secreted himself or herself within or without this
state is not included.
(c) A person whose sentence of probation was revoked may not  apply to the court for entry of
an order setting aside the conviction for which the person was sentenced to  probation for a period
of 10 years from the date of revocation.
(2)(a) A copy of the motion and a full set of the defendant’s fingerprints shall  be served upon
the office of the prosecuting attorney who prosecuted the  crime or violation, or who had authority
to prosecute the charge if there was no accusatory instrument filed, and opportunity shall  be given
to contest the motion. The fingerprint card with the notation “motion for setting aside conviction,”
or “motion for setting aside arrest, citation or charge record” as  the case may be, shall be for-
warded to the Department of State Police. Information  resulting from the fingerprint search along
with the fingerprint card shall be returned to the prosecuting attorney.
(b) When a prosecuting attorney is served with a copy of a motion to set  aside a conviction
under this section, the prosecuting attorney shall provide a copy of  the motion and notice of the
hearing date to the victim, if any, of  the crime by mailing a copy of the motion and notice to the
victim’s last-known address.
(c) When a person makes  a motion under subsection (1)(a) of this section, the person must pay
a fee of $80 to the Department of State Police. The  person shall attach a certified check payable to
the Department of State Police in the amount of $80 to the  fingerprint card that is served upon the
prosecuting attorney. The office of the prosecuting attorney shall forward the check  with the
fingerprint card to the Department of State Police.
(d) In addition to the fee established under paragraph (c) of this  subsection, when a person
makes a motion under  subsection (1)(a) of this section the person must pay the filing fee established
under ORS 21.135.
(e) The prosecuting attorney may  not charge the defendant a fee for performing the require-
ments described in this section.
(3) Upon hearing the motion, the court may require the filing of such affidavits and may require
the taking of such proofs as the court deems proper. The court  shall allow the victim to make a
statement at the hearing. Except  as otherwise provided in subsection (12) of this section, if the court
determines that the circumstances  and behavior of the applicant from the date of conviction, or from
the date of arrest, citation or charge as the  case may be, to the date of the hearing on the motion
warrant setting aside  the conviction, or the arrest, citation or charge record as the case may be,
the court shall enter an appropriate order that shall state the original arrest or citation charge and
the conviction charge,  if any and if different from the original, date of charge, submitting agency
and disposition. The order shall further state that positive identification has been established  by the
Enrolled Senate Bill 1543 (SB 1543-B) Page 13
Department of  State Police and further identified as to Department of State Police number or sub-
mitting agency number. Upon the entry of the order, the applicant for purposes of the law shall
be deemed not to have been previously convicted, or arrested, cited or  charged as the case may be,
and the court shall issue an order sealing the record of conviction and other official records  in the
case, including the records  of arrest, citation or charge whether or not the arrest, citation or charge
resulted in a further criminal proceeding.
(4) The clerk of the court shall forward a certified copy of the order to such agencies as directed
by the court. A certified copy must be sent to  the Department of Corrections when the person has
been in the custody  of the Department of Corrections. Upon entry of the order, the conviction, ar-
rest, citation, charge or other proceeding shall be deemed not to have occurred, and the applicant
may answer accordingly any questions relating to its occurrence.
(5) The provisions of subsection (1)(a) of this section apply to a conviction for:
(a) A Class B felony, except for  a violation of ORS 166.429 or any crime classified as a person
felony as that term is defined in the rules of the Oregon Criminal Justice Commission, only if:
(A)(i) Twenty years or more have  elapsed from the date of the conviction sought to be set aside
or of the release of the person  from imprisonment for the conviction sought to be set aside, which-
ever is later; and
(ii) The person has not been  convicted of, arrested or criminally cited for or charged with any
other offense, excluding motor vehicle violations, after the date the person was convicted of the of-
fense sought to  be set aside. Notwithstanding subsection (1) of this section, a conviction, arrest, ci-
tation or charge that has been set  aside under this section shall be considered for the purpose of
determining whether this subparagraph is applicable; or
(B) The Class B felony is described in paragraphs (b) to [ (e)] (d) of this subsection.
(b) Any misdemeanor, Class C felony or felony punishable as a misdemeanor  pursuant to ORS
161.705.
[(c) Unlawful possession of a controlled substance classified in Schedule I. ]
[(d)] (c)  An offense constituting a violation under state law or local ordinance.
[(e)] (d) An offense committed before  January 1, 1972, that, if committed after that date, would
qualify for an order under this section.
(6) Notwithstanding  subsection (5) of this section, the provisions of subsection (1)(a) of this
section do not apply to a conviction for:
(a) Criminal mistreatment in the second degree under ORS 163.200 if the victim at the time  of
the crime was 65 years of age or older.
(b) Criminal mistreatment in the first degree under ORS 163.205 if the victim at  the time of the
crime was 65 years of age or older, or when the offense constitutes child abuse as defined  in ORS
419B.005.
(c) Endangering the welfare of a minor  under ORS 163.575 (1)(a), when the offense constitutes
child abuse as defined in ORS 419B.005.
(d) Criminally negligent homicide under ORS  163.145, when that offense was punishable as a
Class C felony.
(e) Assault in the third degree under ORS 163.165 (1)(h).
(f) Any sex crime, unless:
(A) The sex crime is listed in ORS 163A.140 (1)(a) and:
(i) The person has been relieved of the  obligation to report as a sex offender pursuant to a court
order entered under ORS 163A.145 or 163A.150; and
(ii) The person has not been convicted of, found guilty except for insanity of  or found to be
within the jurisdiction of the  juvenile court based on a crime for which the court is prohibited from
setting aside the conviction under this section; or
(B) The sex crime constitutes a Class C felony and:
(i) The person was under 16 years of age at the time of the offense;
(ii) The person is:
(I) Less than two years and 180 days older than the victim; or
Enrolled Senate Bill 1543 (SB 1543-B) Page 14
(II) At least two years and 180 days older,  but less than three years and 180 days older, than
the victim and the court finds that setting aside  the conviction is in the interests of justice and of
benefit to the person and the community;
(iii) The  victim’s lack of consent was due solely to incapacity to consent by reason of being less
than a specified age;
(iv) The victim was at least 12 years of age at the time of the offense;
(v) The person has not been convicted of,  found guilty except for insanity of or found to be
within the jurisdiction of the  juvenile court based on a crime for which the court is prohibited from
setting aside the conviction under this section; and
(vi) Each conviction or finding described in this subparagraph involved the same victim.
(7) Notwithstanding  subsection (5) of this section, the provisions of subsection (1) of this section
do not apply to:
(a) A conviction for a state or municipal traffic offense.
(b) A person convicted, within the  10-year period immediately preceding the filing of the motion
pursuant to subsection (1) of this section, of any other offense,  excluding motor vehicle violations,
whether or not  the other conviction is for conduct associated with the same criminal episode that
caused the arrest, citation, charge or conviction that is sought to  be set aside. A single violation,
other than a motor vehicle violation, within the  last 10 years is not a conviction under this sub-
section. Notwithstanding subsection (1) of this  section, a conviction that has been set aside under
this section shall be considered for the purpose of determining whether this paragraph  is applicable.
(c) A person who at  the time the motion authorized by subsection (1) of this section is pending
before the court is under charge of commission of any crime.
(8) The provisions of subsection (1)(b) of this section do not apply to:
(a) A person arrested or criminally  cited for or charged with an offense within the three-year
period immediately preceding  the filing of the motion for any offense, excluding motor vehicle vio-
lations, and excluding arrests, citations or charges for conduct associated with the  same criminal
episode that caused the arrest, citation or charge that is sought to be set aside. An  arrest, citation
or charge that has been set  aside under this section may not be considered for the purpose of de-
termining whether this paragraph is applicable.
(b) An arrest or citation for  driving while under the influence of intoxicants if the charge is
dismissed as a result of the person’s successful completion of a diversion agreement  described in
ORS 813.200.
(9) The provisions of subsection (1) of this section apply to  convictions, arrests, citations and
charges that occurred before, as  well as those that occurred after, September 9, 1971. There is no
time limit for making an application.
(10) For purposes of any civil action in which  truth is an element of a claim for relief or affir-
mative defense, the provisions of subsection (3) of this section providing  that the conviction, arrest,
citation, charge or other proceeding be deemed not to have occurred do not apply and a  party may
apply to the court for  an order requiring disclosure of the official records in the case as may be
necessary in the interest of justice.
(11) Upon motion  of any prosecutor or defendant in a case involving records sealed under this
section, supported by affidavit showing good cause, the court with jurisdiction  may order the reo-
pening and disclosure of any records sealed under this section for  the limited purpose of assisting
the investigation of the movant. However,  such an order has no other effect on the orders setting
aside the conviction or the arrest, citation or charge record.
(12) Unless the court makes written findings by clear and convincing evidence that granting  the
motion would not be in the best  interests of justice, the court shall grant the motion and enter an
order as provided in subsection (3) of this section if the defendant has been convicted of one  of the
following crimes and is otherwise eligible for relief under this section:
(a) Abandonment of a child, ORS 163.535.
(b) Attempted assault in the second degree, ORS 163.175.
(c) Assault in the third degree, ORS 163.165.
Enrolled Senate Bill 1543 (SB 1543-B) Page 15
(d) Coercion, ORS 163.275.
(e) Criminal mistreatment in the first degree, ORS 163.205.
(f) Attempted escape in the first degree, ORS 162.165.
(g) Incest, ORS 163.525, if the victim was at least 18 years of age.
(h) Intimidation in the first degree, ORS 166.165.
(i) Attempted kidnapping in the second degree, ORS 163.225.
(j) Attempted robbery in the second degree, ORS 164.405.
(k) Robbery in the third degree, ORS 164.395.
(L) Supplying contraband, ORS 162.185.
(m) Unlawful use of a weapon, ORS 166.220.
(13) As used in this section, “sex crime” has the meaning given that term in ORS 163A.005.
SECTION 13.
 ORS 137.372 is amended to read:
137.372. (1)(a) Notwithstanding the provisions of ORS 137.370 (2), an offender who has  been re-
voked from a probationary sentence for a felony  committed on or after November 1, 1989, and whose
sentence was imposed  as a downward dispositional departure under the rules of the Oregon Criminal
Justice  Commission,  shall receive credit for the time served in jail after arrest and before com-
mencement of  the probationary sentence and for the time served in jail as part of the probationary
sentence. However, if the credit for the  time served in jail as described in this paragraph is greater
than 90 days, the sentencing judge may limit or deny credit for any of  that time that exceeds 90
days.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions  of ORS 137.370 (2), an offender who has been revoked from
a probationary sentence  for a felony committed on or after November 1, 1989, and whose sentence
was imposed as a presumptive or optional  probationary  sentence under the rules of the Oregon
Criminal Justice Commission, shall receive credit for the time served in jail after arrest and  before
commencement of the probationary sentence and for the  time served in jail as part of the
probationary sentence, unless the sentencing judge orders otherwise.
(2) Notwithstanding the  provisions of ORS 137.370 (2), an offender who is sentenced to
imprisonment in the  custody of the Department of Corrections following the failure to complete a
diversion program described in ORS 430.450 to 430.555 or a specialty court program in which  the
offender was not on probation shall  receive credit for the time served in jail after arrest and before
commencement of the program and for the time served in jail  as a sanction for violating the terms
of the program, unless the sentencing judge orders otherwise.
(3) Notwithstanding  the provisions of ORS 137.320 (4), an offender who has been ordered con-
fined as part of a  probationary sentence for a felony committed on or after July 18, 1995, shall re-
ceive credit for  the time served in jail after arrest and before commencement of the term unless the
sentencing judge orders otherwise.
(4) As used in this section, “specialty court” has the meaning given that term in ORS 137.680.
SECTION 14.
(1) Jurisdiction is conferred upon the Supreme Court to determine whether
chapter 673, Oregon Laws 2017, violates  any provision of the Oregon Constitution, for the
following appeals:
(a) In a civil action, any appeal in which the notice of appeal  was filed after January 1,
2018, and before April 1, 2018; or
(b) In an appeal by a criminal defendant, any appeal in which:
(A) The only assignment of error relates to the constitutionality  of a section of chapter
673, Oregon Laws 2017;
(B) A notice of appeal was filed after January 1, 2018, and before April 1, 2018; and
(C) The defendant requests in writing, no later than April 13, 2018, that the  appeal be
decided by the Supreme Court.
(2) The Supreme Court shall,  to the extent practicable, expedite its disposition of appeals
under subsection (1)(a) of this section as provided in the rules of appellate procedure.
SECTION 15.
 If House  Bill 4145 becomes law, ORS 166.412, as amended by section 4, chapter
, Oregon Laws 2018 (Enrolled House Bill 4145), is amended to read:
Enrolled Senate Bill 1543 (SB 1543-B) Page 16
166.412. (1) As used in this section:
(a) “Antique firearm” has the meaning given that term in 18 U.S.C. 921;
(b) “Department” means the Department of State Police;
(c) “Firearm” has the meaning given that term in ORS 166.210, except that  it does not include
an antique firearm;
(d) “Firearms transaction record” means the firearms transaction record required by 18  U.S.C.
921 to 929;
(e) “Firearms transaction thumbprint form” means a form provided by the department under
subsection (11) of this section;
(f) “Gun dealer” means a person engaged in the business,  as defined in 18 U.S.C. 921, of selling,
leasing or otherwise transferring a firearm,  whether the person is a retail dealer, pawnbroker or
otherwise; and
(g) “Purchaser” means a person who  buys, leases or otherwise receives a firearm from a gun
dealer.
(2) Except as provided in subsections (3)(c)  and (12) of this section, a gun dealer shall comply
with the following before a firearm is delivered to a purchaser:
(a) The purchaser shall present to the gun  dealer current identification meeting the require-
ments of subsection (4) of this section.
(b) The  gun dealer shall complete the firearms transaction record and obtain the signature of
the purchaser on the record.
(c) The gun dealer shall obtain the thumbprints of the purchaser on  the firearms transaction
thumbprint form and attach the form to the gun dealer’s copy of the firearms transaction record to
be filed with that copy.
(d) The gun dealer shall request by telephone that the department conduct a  criminal history
record check on the purchaser and shall provide the following information to the department:
(A) The federal firearms license number of the gun dealer;
(B) The business name of the gun dealer;
(C) The place of transfer;
(D) The name of the person making the transfer;
(E) The make, model, caliber and manufacturer’s number of the firearm being transferred;
(F) The name and date of birth of the purchaser;
(G) The Social Security number of the  purchaser if the purchaser voluntarily provides this
number to the gun dealer; and
(H) The type, issuer and identification number of the identification presented by the purchaser.
(e) The gun dealer shall receive  a unique approval number for the transfer from the department
and record the approval number on the firearms  transaction record and on the firearms transaction
thumbprint form.
(f) The gun dealer  may destroy the firearms transaction thumbprint form five years after the
completion of the firearms transaction thumbprint form.
(3)(a) Upon receipt of a request of the gun dealer for  a criminal history record check, the de-
partment shall immediately, during the gun dealer’s telephone call or by return call:
(A) Determine, from criminal records and other information  available to it, whether the pur-
chaser is disqualified under ORS 166.470 from completing the purchase; and
(B) Notify the gun  dealer when a purchaser is disqualified from completing the transfer or pro-
vide the gun dealer with a unique approval number indicating  that the purchaser is qualified to
complete the transfer.
(b) If the department is unable to determine if the purchaser  is qualified or disqualified from
completing the transfer within 30 minutes, the department  shall notify the gun dealer and provide
the gun dealer with an estimate of the time when the department will provide the  requested infor-
mation.
(c) If the department fails to provide a unique approval number  to a gun dealer or to notify the
gun dealer that the purchaser is disqualified under  paragraph (a) of this subsection before the close
Enrolled Senate Bill 1543 (SB 1543-B) Page 17
of the gun dealer’s next business day following the request by the gun dealer  for a criminal history
record check, the gun dealer may deliver the firearm to the purchaser.
(4)(a) Identification  required of the purchaser under subsection (2) of this section shall include
one piece  of current identification bearing a photograph and the date of birth of the purchaser that:
(A) Is issued  under the authority of the United States Government, a state, a political subdivi-
sion of a state, a foreign  government, a political subdivision of a foreign government, an interna-
tional governmental organization or an international quasi-governmental organization; and
(B) Is intended to be used for identification of an individual  or is commonly accepted for the
purpose of identification of an individual.
(b) If the identification presented by the purchaser under paragraph (a)  of this subsection does
not include the current address of the purchaser, the purchaser shall present a second piece  of
current identification that contains  the current address of the purchaser. The Superintendent of
State Police may specify by rule  the type of identification that may be presented under this para-
graph.
(c) The department  may require that the gun dealer verify the identification of the purchaser
if that identity is in question by sending the thumbprints of the purchaser to the department.
(5) The department shall establish a telephone number that shall be operational  seven days a
week between the hours of 8 a.m. and 10 p.m. for the purpose of responding to inquiries from gun
dealers for a criminal history record check under this section.
(6) No public employee, official  or agency shall be held criminally or civilly liable for performing
the investigations required by this section provided  the employee, official or agency acts in good
faith and without malice.
(7)(a) The department may retain  a record of the information obtained during a request for a
criminal history record check for no more than five years.
(b) The record of the information obtained during a request for a criminal  history record check
by a gun dealer is exempt from disclosure under public records law.
(c) If the department determines that a purchaser is prohibited from  possessing a firearm under
ORS 166.250 (1)(c), the  department shall report the attempted transfer, the purchaser’s name and any
other personally identifiable information to all federal,  state and local law enforcement agencies and
district attorneys that have jurisdiction over the  location or locations where the attempted transfer
was made and where the purchaser resides.
(d) If the department determines that, based on the  judgment of conviction, the purchaser is
prohibited from possessing a firearm as a condition of  probation or that the purchaser is currently
on post-prison supervision or parole, the  department shall report the attempted transfer to the
purchaser’s supervising officer and the district attorney of the county in  which the conviction oc-
curred.
(e) If the department determines that the purchaser is prohibited from possessing a firearm  due
to a court order described in ORS 166.255 (1)(a), the department  shall report the attempted transfer
to the court that issued the order.
(f) If the  department determines that the purchaser is under the jurisdiction of the Psychiatric
Security Review Board, the department shall report the attempted transfer to the board.
(g) Reports required  by paragraphs (c) to (f) of this subsection shall be made within 24 hours
after the determination is made, unless a  report would compromise an ongoing investigation, in
which case the report may be delayed as long as necessary to avoid  compromising the investigation.
(h) On  or before January 31 of each year, a law enforcement agency or a prosecuting attorney’s
office that received a report pursuant to paragraph (c) of this subsection during the previous  cal-
endar year shall inform the department of [ the] any  action that was taken concerning [ each at-
tempted transfer ] the report  and the outcome of the action.
(i) The department shall annually publish a written report, based on any  information received
under paragraph (h) of this subsection, detailing the following information for the previous year:
(A) The number of purchasers whom  the department determined were prohibited from possessing
a firearm under ORS 166.250 (1)(c), arranged by category of prohibition;
Enrolled Senate Bill 1543 (SB 1543-B) Page 18
(B) The number of reports made pursuant to paragraph (c) of this subsection;
(C) The number of investigations arising from the  reports made pursuant to paragraph (c) of this
subsection, the number of investigations concluded and  the number of investigations referred for
prosecution, all arranged by category of prohibition; and
(D) The number of criminal charges arising from the reports made pursuant to paragraph (c)  of
this subsection and the disposition of the charges, both arranged by category of prohibition.
(8) A law enforcement agency may inspect the records of a gun dealer relating  to transfers of
firearms with the consent of a gun dealer in the  course of a reasonable inquiry during a criminal
investigation or under the authority of a properly authorized subpoena or search warrant.
(9) When a firearm is delivered, it shall be unloaded.
(10) In accordance with applicable provisions of  ORS chapter 183, the Superintendent of State
Police may adopt rules necessary for:
(a) The design of the firearms transaction thumbprint form;
(b) The maintenance of a procedure  to correct errors in the criminal records of the department;
(c) The provision of a security system to identify gun  dealers that request a criminal history
record check under subsection (2) of this section; and
(d) The creation and maintenance of a database of the business hours of gun dealers.
(11) The department shall publish the  firearms transaction thumbprint form and shall furnish the
form to gun dealers on application at cost.
(12) This section  does not apply to transactions between persons licensed as dealers under 18
U.S.C. 923.
(13)(a) If requested by a transferor who is not a gun dealer, a  gun dealer may request a criminal
background check pursuant to ORS 166.435 or  166.438 and may charge a reasonable fee for provid-
ing the service.
(b) A gun dealer that  requests a criminal background check under this subsection is immune
from civil  liability for any use of the firearm by the recipient or transferee, provided that the gun
dealer requests the criminal background check as described in this section.
SECTION 16.
 If House Bill 4145 becomes law, ORS 166.436, as amended by  section 5, chapter
, Oregon Laws 2018 (Enrolled House Bill 4145), is amended to read:
166.436. (1) The  Department of State Police shall make the telephone number established under
ORS 166.412 (5) available  for requests for criminal background checks under this section from per-
sons who are not gun dealers and who are transferring firearms at gun shows.
(2) Prior to transferring a firearm  at a gun show, a transferor who is not a gun dealer may re-
quest by telephone that  the department conduct a criminal background check on the recipient and
shall provide the following information to the department:
(a) The name, address and telephone number of the transferor;
(b) The make, model, caliber and manufacturer’s number of the firearm being transferred;
(c) The name, date of birth, race, sex and address of the recipient;
(d) The Social  Security number of the recipient if the recipient voluntarily provides that number;
(e) The address of the place where the transfer is occurring; and
(f) The type, issuer and  identification number of a current piece of identification bearing a re-
cent photograph of the recipient presented by the recipient.  The identification presented by the re-
cipient must meet the requirements of ORS 166.412 (4)(a).
(3)(a) Upon receipt of a request for a criminal background check under  this section, the de-
partment shall immediately, during the telephone call or by return call:
(A) Determine from  criminal records and other information available to it whether the recipient
is disqualified under ORS 166.470 from completing  the transfer or is otherwise prohibited by state
or federal law from possessing a firearm; and
(B) Notify the transferor when  a recipient is disqualified from completing the transfer or provide
the transferor with a unique approval number indicating  that the recipient is qualified to complete
the transfer. The unique approval number is a permit valid for  24 hours for the requested transfer.
Enrolled Senate Bill 1543 (SB 1543-B) Page 19
If the firearm is not transferred from the transferor to the recipient  within 24 hours after receipt
of the unique approval number, a new request must be made by the transferor.
(b) If the department is unable to determine whether the recipient is qualified  for or disqualified
from completing the transfer within  30 minutes of receiving the request, the department shall notify
the transferor and provide the transferor with an estimate of the time when the  department will
provide the requested information.
(4) A public employee or public  agency incurs no criminal or civil liability for performing the
criminal background checks required by this section, provided the employee or agency  acts in good
faith and without malice.
(5)(a) The department may retain  a record of the information obtained during a request for a
criminal background check under this section for the period of time provided in ORS 166.412 (7).
(b) The record of the information  obtained during a request for a criminal background check
under this section is exempt from disclosure under public records law.
(c) If the department determines that a recipient is prohibited from possessing  a firearm under
ORS 166.250 (1)(c), the department  shall report the attempted transfer, the recipient’s name and any
other personally identifiable information to all federal,  state and local law enforcement agencies and
district attorneys that have jurisdiction over the  location or locations where the attempted transfer
was made and where the recipient resides.
(d) If the department determines that, based on  the judgment of conviction, the recipient is
prohibited from possessing a firearm as a condition of  probation or that the recipient is currently
on post-prison supervision or parole, the  department shall report the attempted transfer to the
recipient’s supervising officer and the district attorney of the county in which  the conviction oc-
curred.
(e) If the department determines that the recipient is prohibited from possessing a firearm due
to a court order described in ORS 166.255 (1)(a), the department  shall report the attempted transfer
to the court that issued the order.
(f) If the department determines that the recipient is under the jurisdiction of the  Psychiatric
Security Review Board, the department shall report the attempted transfer to the board.
(g) Reports required by paragraphs (c) to (f) of this subsection shall be made within  24 hours
after the determination is made, unless a report  would compromise an ongoing investigation, in
which case the report may be delayed as long as necessary to avoid  compromising the investigation.
(h) On  or before January 31 of each year, a law enforcement agency or a prosecuting attorney’s
office  that  received a report pursuant to paragraph (c) of this subsection during the previous cal-
endar year shall inform the department of [ the] any  action that was taken concerning [ each at-
tempted transfer ] the report  and the outcome of the action.
(i) The department  shall annually publish a written report, based on any information received
under paragraph (h) of this subsection, detailing the following information for the previous year:
(A) The number of recipients whom the department determined  were prohibited from possessing
a firearm under ORS 166.250 (1)(c), arranged by category of prohibition;
(B) The number of reports made pursuant to paragraph (c) of this subsection;
(C) The number of investigations arising from the  reports made pursuant to paragraph (c) of this
subsection, the number of investigations concluded and  the number of investigations referred for
prosecution, all arranged by category of prohibition; and
(D) The number of criminal charges arising from the reports made pursuant to paragraph (c)  of
this subsection and the disposition of the charges, both arranged by category of prohibition.
(6) The  recipient of the firearm must be present when the transferor requests a criminal back-
ground check under this section.
(7)(a) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this subsection, a transferor who receives
notification under this  section that the recipient is qualified to complete the transfer of a firearm,
has the recipient fill out the form required by ORS 166.438 (1)(a) and retains the  form as required
by ORS 166.438 (2) is immune from civil liability for any  use of the firearm from the time of the
Enrolled Senate Bill 1543 (SB 1543-B) Page 20
transfer unless the transferor knows,  or reasonably should know, that the recipient is likely to
commit an unlawful act involving the firearm.
(b) The immunity provided by paragraph (a) of this subsection does not apply:
(A) If the transferor knows, or reasonably should know, that the recipient of  the firearm intends
to deliver  the firearm to a third person who the transferor knows, or reasonably should know, may
not lawfully possess the firearm; or
(B) In any product liability civil action under ORS 30.900 to 30.920.
SECTION 17.
Section 14 of this 2018 Act is repealed on July 1, 2023.
SECTION 18. (1) The amendments to ORS 423.105 by section 8 of this  2018 Act become
operative on June 30, 2018.
(2) The  amendments to ORS 166.412 and 166.436 by sections 15 and 16 of this 2018 Act
become operative on January 1, 2019.
SECTION 19. (1) The amendments to ORS 137.540, 162.375 and 837.365 by sections 6, 9  and
10 of this 2018 Act apply to offenses committed  on or after the effective date of this 2018 Act.
(2) The amendments to ORS 137.372 by section 13 of this 2018 Act apply to sentences
imposed on or after the effective date of this 2018 Act.
SECTION 20. This 2018 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation  of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency  is declared to exist, and this 2018 Act takes effect
on its passage.
Passed by Senate February 21, 2018
Repassed by Senate March 3, 2018
..................................................................................
Lori L. Brocker, Secretary of Senate
..................................................................................
Peter Courtney, President of Senate
Passed by House March 3, 2018
..................................................................................
Tina Kotek, Speaker of House
Received by Governor:
........................M.,........................................................., 2018
Approved:
........................M.,........................................................., 2018
..................................................................................
Kate Brown, Governor
Filed in Office of Secretary of State:
........................M.,........................................................., 2018
..................................................................................
Dennis Richardson, Secretary of State
Enrolled Senate Bill 1543 (SB 1543-B) Page 21