1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2024 Regular Session
House Bill 4071
Sponsored by  Representatives DIEHL, PHAM H, Senator BONHAM; Representatives BOICE, CONRAD, CRAMER,
DEXTER, GOODWIN, HELFRICH, HIEB, LEVY B, LIVELY, MANNIX, MCINTIRE, OSBORNE, OWENS,
RESCHKE, SCHARF, WALLAN, YUNKER, Senators DEMBROW, FINDLEY, HANSELL, HAYDEN, JAMA,
LINTHICUM, SMITH DB, SOLLMAN, WEBER (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Tells health care boards to give short-term permission to work. Starts  January 1, 2025.
(Flesch Readability Score: 60.7).
Requires health professional regulatory boards  to issue a temporary authorization to practice
a health profession to eligible applicants  within 10 days of receiving an application for licensure.
Defines “health profession” and “health professional regulatory board.”
Takes effect on the 91st day following adjournment sine die.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to health care licensing; and prescribing an effective date.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) As used in this section:
(a) “Health profession” means a health care service:
(A) For which an individual must possess a license to provide the health care service; and
(B) Over which a health professional regulatory board has oversight.
(b) “Health professional regulatory  board” means a state agency that licenses individuals
to provide a health care service to clients or patients that are humans.
(2) A health professional regulatory  board shall, within 10 days of receiving an application
for licensure, issue to the applicant a temporary authorization to practice the health pro-
fession regulated by the health professional regulatory board if the applicant:
(a) Holds a current authorization to practice the health profession issued by  another
state and the health professional regulatory board determines  that the other state’s au-
thorization requirements are substantially similar to or exceed those  of the health profes-
sional regulatory board;
(b) Provides to the health professional regulatory  board, in a manner determined by the
health professional regulatory board, sufficient proof that the applicant is  in good standing
with the issuing out-of-state entity;
(c) Has demonstrated competency,  as determined by the health professional regulatory
board by rule, over the health profession regulated by the health professional  regulatory
board;
(d) Agrees to complete within one year of the date the health professional regulatory
board receives the application any applicable continuing education requirements; and
(e) Resides, or adequately demonstrates an intent to reside, in this state.
(3) A temporary authorization  issued under subsection (2) of this section is valid until the
earlier of the following dates:
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 98
HB 4071
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
(a) One year from the date of issuance; or
(b) The date on which the  applicant receives the license for which the applicant applied
to the health professional regulatory board.
SECTION 2.
(1) Section 1 of this 2024 Act becomes operative on January 1, 2025.
(2) A health professional regulatory board may take any  action before the operative date
specified in subsection (1) of this section that  is necessary to enable the health professional
regulatory board to exercise,  on or after the operative date specified in subsection (1) of this
section, all of the duties, functions and powers conferred on the health professional regula-
tory board by section 1 of this 2024 Act.
SECTION 3.
This 2024 Act takes effect on the 91st day after the date on  which the 2024
regular session of the Eighty-second Legislative Assembly adjourns sine die.
[2]