1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2026 Regular Session
Senate Bill 1587
Sponsored by Senator CAMPOS, Representative CHOTZEN, Senator PROZANSKI,  Representatives ANDERSEN,
CHAICHI, RUIZ, WISE; Senators FREDERICK, GELSER BLOUIN, GOLDEN, GORSEK, JAMA, MANNING
JR, MEEK, NERON MISSLIN, PHAM K, REYNOLDS, SOLLMAN,  Representatives BOWMAN, GAMBA,
GOMBERG, GRAYBER, HUDSON, JAVADI, MCDONALD, MCLAIN, MUNOZ, NELSON, PHAM H,  RIEKE
SMITH, SOSA, TRAN, WALTERS (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act says that data brokers may not give  data to help enforce civil law, unless a
court orders them. (Flesch Readability Score: 72.3).
Prohibits data brokers from providing data to others for  purposes related to enforcement of civil
law, except pursuant  to a court order. Authorizes the imposition of civil penalties for violations.
Authorizes civil actions for violations.
Declares an emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to data brokers; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) As used in this section, “brokered personal data” and “data broker”  have
the meanings given those terms in ORS 646A.593.
(2) Except as provided in subsection (3) of this section, a data  broker may not sell or
otherwise provide brokered personal data to any person or entity if the data broker  has
reason to believe  that the person or entity will use the brokered personal data, directly or
indirectly, for purposes related to enforcement of civil law.
(3) This section does not apply to a data  broker that is required to provide brokered
personal data pursuant to an order  of a court of competent jurisdiction, including a judicial
warrant.
(4) The Department of Consumer and Business Services  may adopt rules necessary to
implement this section.
(5) The department may impose a civil penalty on a  data broker for a violation of this
section up to the amounts specified in ORS 646A.593 (7).
(6) If a data broker provides brokered personal  data about an individual in violation of
this section, the individual may bring a civil action against the data broker for economic and
noneconomic damages and equitable relief. If a court awards damages or  equitable relief to
the individual, the court may award reasonable attorney fees to the individual.
(7) Any person may bring a civil action against a data  broker that violates this section
to enjoin the violation.
SECTION 2.
This 2026 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the  public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is  declared to exist, and this 2026 Act takes effect
on its passage.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 83