1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2023 Regular Session
House Bill 3514
Sponsored by Representative GOMBERG; Representative NERON
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Requires Oregon Racing Commission  to investigate reports of Multi-Jurisdictional Simulcasting
and Interactive Wagering Totalizator Hub licensees  that, in violation of statute, permit greyhound
wagering accounts to be opened by individuals in jurisdictions where greyhound racing  is unlawful.
Requires commission to suspend license of violators until licensee implements appropriate controls.
Prohibits licensees from accepting  wagers on greyhound races that took place or are taking
place outside United States.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to racing; amending ORS 462.725.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 462.725, as amended by section 1, chapter 77, Oregon Laws 2022, is  amended
to read:
462.725. (1) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the Oregon Racing Commission
may adopt rules to:
(a) License and  regulate all phases of operation of Multi-Jurisdictional Simulcasting and Inter-
active Wagering Totalizator Hubs located in Oregon; and
(b) Authorize and license Multi-Jurisdictional  Simulcasting and Interactive Wagering Totalizator
Hubs to  conduct simulcast broadcasting of, and mutuel wagering on, animal races, including previ-
ously held races on which mutuel wagering is lawful  in Oregon , subject to subsection (8) of this
section.
(2) In addition to the other rules of operation adopted by the  commission, the commission shall
adopt a rule setting the amount that may be taken from the gross receipts  of the multi-jurisdictional
mutuel system.
(3) All employees working in Oregon and all officers of any Multi-Jurisdictional Simulcasting
and Interactive Wagering Totalizator Hubs located and operating  in Oregon must obtain a license
from the commission prior  to the commencement of business or employment. The commission shall
adopt rules establishing license fees for the employees and officers, not to exceed $30 per year.
(4) Payments to be made to the commission include:
(a) Multi-Jurisdictional  Simulcasting and Interactive Wagering Totalizator Hub license fee not
more than $200 per operating day.
(b) Not more than one percent of total gross receipts of  mutuel wagering recorded by the
totalizator system.
(5) Of the moneys received by the commission under  subsection (4)(b) of this section, 25 percent
shall be paid to the  State Treasurer for deposit in the General Fund and 75 percent shall be retained
by the commission. The commission  may adopt rules under which the moneys retained by the com-
mission may be distributed for the benefit of the Oregon pari-mutuel racing industry.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2116
HB 3514
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
(6) Wagers on previously held races authorized under subsection (1) of this section are  subject
to the provisions of ORS 462.157.
(7)(a) A Multi-Jurisdictional Simulcasting and Interactive  Wagering Totalizator Hub licensee
may not establish an account for wagering on greyhound racing  for an individual [ unless] if
wagering on live greyhound racing is unlawful in the jurisdiction of the individual’s principal resi-
dence.
(b) The commission shall investigate any reports of violations of this  subsection. If the
commission finds that a licensee  is in violation of this subsection, the commission shall
suspend the licensee’s license under this section until the licensee  demonstrates to the sat-
isfaction of the commission that the licensee has implemented policies and  procedures to
prevent violations of this subsection.
(8) A Multi-Jurisdictional Simulcasting and Interactive Wagering  Totalizator Hub
licensee may not accept wagers on greyhound races that took place or are taking place out-
side of the United States.
[2]