83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Enrolled
House Bill 2411
Introduced and printed pursuant to House Rule 12.00. Presession filed (at the request of House In-
terim Committee on Economic Development,  Small Business, and Trade for Representative
Daniel Nguyen)
CHAPTER .................................................
AN ACT
Relating to industrial development; creating new provisions; and amending ORS 285B.012.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
Sections 2 to 12 of this 2025 Act are added to and made a part of ORS
chapter 285B.
SECTION 2. Findings. The Legislative Assembly finds that:
(1) Traded sector  industries are the foundation of state and regional economic develop-
ment strategies for long-term job creation and prosperity. Because  traded sector jobs typi-
cally pay higher than average wages and  generate higher than average income tax revenues,
such jobs play an important role in supporting critical state services.
(2) Industrial development that provides new traded sector jobs reinforces the economies
of local and regional communities and  contributes to the economic vitality of the State of
Oregon.
(3) There is a shortage of  market-ready industrial land in this state. Public and private
project sponsors have  limited financial tools to facilitate development of significant and
complex industrial land that is appropriate for traded sector industrial use.
(4) Public assistance is necessary to overcome development-related constraints and to
incentivize industrial land development in this state.
(5) The purpose of sections 2 to 12 of  this 2025 Act is to provide financial assistance to
project sponsors for development and planning projects related to  industrial land develop-
ment, in an amount determined on a  case-by-case basis by the Oregon Business Development
Department.
SECTION 3. Definitions. As used in sections 2 to 12 of this 2025 Act:
(1) “Administrative  costs” includes, but is not limited to, the direct and indirect costs
incurred by the Oregon Business Development Department for:
(a) Investigating and processing applications submitted under section 8 of this 2025 Act;
(b) Negotiating agreements for the purposes of sections 2 to 12 of this 2025 Act;
(c) Monitoring the use of moneys provided to project sponsors under sections 2 to 12  of
this 2025 Act;
(d) Closing a project; and
(e) Providing financial assistance to a project sponsor.
(2) “Brownfield” has the meaning given that term in ORS 285A.185.
Enrolled House Bill 2411 (HB 2411-A) Page 1
(3)(a) “Development project” means  a project for the acquisition, improvement, con-
struction, demolition or  redevelopment of publicly or privately owned utilities, buildings,
land, transportation facilities or other facilities that assist the economic and  community
development of a municipality.
(b) “Development project” includes planning project activities that  are necessary or
useful to a development project as determined by the department.
(4) “Eligible project” means a development project or a planning project.
(5) “Environmental action” has the meaning given that term in ORS 285A.188.
(6) “Industrial land” means land planned and zoned for industrial use that:
(a) Is  suitable for new industrial uses, or the expansion of existing industrial uses, that
can provide significant additional employment in Oregon;
(b) Has land characteristics that provide significant competitive advantages that are dif-
ficult or impossible to replicate; and
(c) Has access to transportation and  freight infrastructure, including, but not limited to,
rail, port, airport,  multimodal freight or transshipment facilities and other major transpor-
tation facilities or routes.
(7)(a) “Industrial use” means a use that generates  income from the production, handling
or distribution of goods or services, including goods or services in the traded sector.
(b) “Industrial use” includes, but is not  limited to, manufacturing, assembly, fabrication,
processing, storage, logistics, warehousing,  importation, distribution, transshipment and re-
search and development.
(8) “Planning project” means:
(a) A project related to a potential development project  for preliminary and final land use
planning and engineering;
(b) A survey, land investigation or environmental action;
(c) A financial, technical or other feasibility report, study or plan; or
(d) Any activity that the department determines  to be necessary or useful in planning for
a potential development project.
(9) “Private owner” means a private  business entity or property owner that has entered
into an agreement with a local jurisdiction for the development of  public infrastructure to
serve a private site.
(10) “Project sponsor” means:
(a) A public entity or private owner of industrial land that is investing in  the preparation
of the land for industrial use by a third party; or
(b) A public entity that has entered  into a development or other agreement with the
private owner of industrial land to prepare the land for industrial use.
(11) “Public entity” means:
(a) A city or county in Oregon;
(b) A port formed under ORS 777.005 to 777.725;
(c) The Port of Portland created by ORS 778.010;
(d) The tribal council of a federally recognized Indian tribe in this state; or
(e) An airport district established under ORS chapter 838.
SECTION 4.
Financial assistance for development projects.  (1)(a) The Oregon  Business
Development Department may provide financial assistance  to a project sponsor, for allowable
costs expended for an industrial land development project, from moneys in the Industrial Site
Loan Fund established under section 12 of this 2025 Act, in accordance with this section.
(b) The financial assistance may be in the form of a loan  to the project sponsor or the
purchase of bonds issued by the project sponsor.
(c) The department shall determine the amount of the financial assistance on  a case-by-
case basis.
(2) Financial assistance may be provided only with respect to  a development project that
is:
Enrolled House Bill 2411 (HB 2411-A) Page 2
(a) Directly owned and operated by the project sponsor; or
(b) The subject of a management contract or an operating agreement to which  the
project sponsor is a party.
(3)(a) If a development project consists solely of the  purchase or acquisition of land, fi-
nancial assistance may be provided only if the land is:
(A) Identified in  the applicable land use or capital plan as necessary for a potential in-
dustrial land development project; or
(B) Zoned solely for industrial use.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this subsection, financial assistance may not  be
denied under this subsection solely because the costs of the development project  include the
costs of acquiring off-site property for purposes that  are directly related to the development
project, including, but not limited to, wetland mitigation.
(4) Financial assistance  provided to a project sponsor under this section may not be used
for:
(a) The payment of:
(A) A penalty or fine; or
(B) Environmental remediation activities conducted at an industrial land site that  is
listed or proposed to  be listed as a national priority pursuant to the Comprehensive Envi-
ronmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9605), for which the
project sponsor, or any party to the loan agreement entered  into pursuant to section 9 of
this 2025 Act to which the project sponsor is a party, is liable under 42 U.S.C. 9607;
(b) Retirement of debt;
(c) Projects that primarily focus on relocating business or economic activity from  one
part of this state to another, except in cases where the business or economic activity  would
otherwise be located outside Oregon; or
(d) Ongoing operations or maintenance expenses of any person.
(5) The department shall adopt rules to  administer and implement the provisions of this
section.
SECTION 5.
Forgivable loans for planning projects.  (1)(a) The Oregon Business Develop-
ment Department  may make a forgivable loan to a project sponsor, for allowable costs re-
lated to a planning project, from moneys in the Industrial Site Loan Fund established under
section 12 of this 2025 Act, in accordance with this section.
(b) The department shall determine the amount of a forgivable loan  on a case-by-case
basis.
(2) The department may not expend in any biennium more than  one percent of the value
of the Industrial Site Loan Fund for planning projects.
(3) A planning project eligible for a forgivable loan under this section may:
(a) Be a stand-alone project that is not intended to lead to a development project.
(b) Be a project that is intended to lead to a development project.
(c) Include planning or investigation for an environmental action on a brownfield.
SECTION 6.
Other forms of financial assistance. (1) The Oregon Business  Development
Department may directly or indirectly  expend or loan moneys in the Industrial Site Loan
Fund established under section 12 of this 2025 Act or extend credit to:
(a) Provide to  project sponsors of an eligible project related to industrial land any form
of financial assistance that the department considers appropriate, including  the refinancing
of temporary project financing.
(b) Purchase goods or services related to  an eligible project on behalf of the project
sponsor.
(c) Finance guaranty  agreements that are issued to guarantee any portion of the obli-
gation of a project sponsor to finance an industrial land  development project and that are
not sold to  the State of Oregon. Guaranty agreements under this subsection shall be payable
Enrolled House Bill 2411 (HB 2411-A) Page 3
solely from moneys in  the fund and shall not constitute a debt or obligation of the State of
Oregon.
(2)(a) The department may, on behalf of the state, establish a special account in the  fund
and commit  to deposit into the special account specified portions of current and future
moneys credited to the fund.
(b) The commitments  shall be made by rule of the department and shall constitute
covenants of the state for the benefit of the owners of obligations  guaranteed by the state
pursuant to this section.
SECTION 7. Allowable costs. For purposes of sections 2 to 12 of this 2025 Act:
(1) The allowable costs of a development project include:
(a) Property acquisition and assembly costs associated with creating large development
parcels, including any easement or right of way directly related to and necessary  for a de-
velopment project.
(b) Transportation  improvements such as access roads, rail spurs and sidings, marine
facility access, airport facilities necessary to provide industrial land access,  intersections,
turning lanes, signals, sidewalks, curbs, transit stops and storm drains.
(c) Infrastructure for providing broadband, electric power, natural  gas, water and sewer
service.
(d) Natural resource mitigation.
(e) Land grading activities.
(f) Environmental remediation and mitigation activities to address brownfield  issues, in
accordance with state and federally approved remediation plans.
(g) Interest-carrying costs incurred by a project sponsor for  amounts borrowed to de-
velop industrial land and financing costs, including capitalized interest.
(h) Direct project management costs.
(i) Costs of consultant services and expenses.
(j) Construction costs and expenses.
(k) Costs of acquiring off-site property for purposes directly related to a development
project, including, but not limited to, wetland mitigation.
(L) Other costs that  the Oregon Business Development Department determines to be
necessary or useful for the project.
(2) The allowable costs of a planning project include:
(a) Necessary planning, engineering, legal and other professional services  associated
with:
(A) The preparation of applications  for local, state and federal permits and related ad-
ministrative costs.
(B) Carrying out the project and related administrative costs.
(b) Other costs that the department determines to be  necessary or useful for the project.
SECTION 8.
Application process for financial assistance. (1)(a) A project sponsor seeking
financial assistance from the Industrial Site Loan Fund  must submit an application in the
manner and form required by the Oregon Business Development Department.
(b) At a minimum, each application must include:
(A) The name and nature of the project sponsor;
(B) A description of the nature of the project;
(C) The provisions of sections 2 to 12 of this 2025 Act under  which the project is eligible
for financial assistance;
(D) The proposed activities to be funded;
(E) A description and estimate of the allowable costs to be incurred for the project; and
(F) All other information and documentation that the department requires.
(2)(a) The department shall review all  timely and complete applications and approve or
reject each application in accordance with rules adopted by the department.
Enrolled House Bill 2411 (HB 2411-A) Page 4
(b) The department shall notify each applicant of its decision. The rejection of an  appli-
cation may not be appealed.
SECTION 9. Agreement for financial assistance. (1) Upon approval of an application
submitted under section 8 of  this 2025 Act, the Oregon Business Development Department,
notwithstanding any other provision of law or any restriction on  indebtedness contained in
a charter, and the project sponsor of the eligible  project to which the application relates may
enter into an agreement for financial  assistance based on the application. The department
shall determine the maximum amount of financial assistance based on  a reasonable and
prudent expectation of the ability of the project sponsor to repay the financial assistance.
(2) An agreement entered into pursuant to this section must include:
(a) A provision that the obligation  of the state under the agreement is contingent on the
availability of moneys in the  Industrial Site Loan Fund for the financial assistance agreed
upon.
(b) A provision that grants the department a lien on, or a security  interest in, collateral
to secure repayment of a loan made to, or bonds issued by, the project sponsor, in  a form
and amount determined by the department and specified in the agreement.
(c) Provisions  that the department considers necessary to ensure expenditure of the
funds for the purposes set forth in the approved application.
(d) Any other provision the department considers necessary or appropriate.
(3) For an eligible project owned by a public entity,  a loan agreement entered into pur-
suant to  this section must be authorized by an ordinance, resolution or order adopted by the
governing body of the project sponsor.
(4) In making  a determination to enter into a loan agreement with the project sponsor
for an industrial land development project, the department shall consider the reasonableness
of the project  sponsor’s estimated costs to prepare the land for industrial use, including, but
not limited to, allowable costs for land preparation.
(5) Financial assistance approved by the department  for an eligible project shall be paid,
in accordance with the terms of the agreement entered into pursuant to  this section, from
the Industrial Site Loan Fund established under section 12 of this 2025 Act.
(6) In assisting project sponsors with eligible projects,  and to meet the goals of sections
2 to 12 of this 2025  Act, the department and other state agencies shall cooperate to the
maximum extent possible with each other and federal agencies.
SECTION 10.
Repayment. (1) A project  sponsor may repay financial assistance provided
for an eligible project under sections 2 to 12 of this 2025  Act from any source, including, but
not limited to:
(a) Revenues generated by the eligible project, including special assessment revenues.
(b) Amounts withheld under section 11 of this 2025 Act.
(c) The general fund of the project sponsor.
(2) A plan  for repayment to the Industrial Site Loan Fund of financial assistance provided
for an industrial land development project:
(a) Shall provide for repayment  by the project sponsor of the financial assistance with
interest to begin no later than seven years after the date of project  completion or at such
other time as the Oregon Business Development Department may provide.
(b) Shall provide for such  evidence of debt assurance of, and security for, repayment by
the project sponsor as is considered necessary by the department.
(c) Shall  set forth a schedule of payments and the period of the loan, not to exceed the
useful life of the contracted project or  30 years from the date of project completion, which-
ever is less, and the manner of determining when loan payments are delinquent.
(d) May provide for a reasonable extension of the time for making any repayment as set
forth under paragraph (c) of  this subsection in emergency or hardship circumstances, if ap-
proved by the department.
Enrolled House Bill 2411 (HB 2411-A) Page 5
(e) Shall include repayment of interest that accrues during any period of delay  in repay-
ment authorized under paragraph (a) of this subsection. The repayment of accrued interest
may be in varying amounts.
(f) Shall allow for other forms of payment than principal and interest payments  on loans,
in accordance with rules adopted by the department.
SECTION 11.
Breach; default. (1) If a project sponsor fails to comply with an agreement
entered into under section 9 of this  2025 Act, the Oregon Business Development Department
may seek  appropriate legal remedies to secure any repayment of obligations due from the
project sponsor to the Industrial Site Loan Fund.
(2)(a) If a project sponsor defaults on payments  of obligations to the fund under sections
2 to  12 of this 2025 Act, the State of Oregon may withhold any amounts otherwise due to the
project sponsor to offset against the obligations. The department  may waive this right to
withhold.
(b) Moneys  withheld under paragraph (a) of this subsection shall be deposited in the fund
and shall be used to repay any account in the fund from which moneys were expended  to pay
obligations upon which the project sponsor defaulted.
SECTION 12. Industrial Site Loan Fund. (1)(a) The Industrial Site Loan Fund is estab-
lished in the State Treasury, separate and  distinct from the General Fund. Interest earned
by the Industrial Site Loan Fund shall be credited to the fund.
(b) Moneys in the fund are continuously appropriated  to the Oregon Business Develop-
ment Department for the purposes set forth in sections 2 to 12 of this 2025  Act. In addition,
the department may  finance administrative costs incurred by the department under sections
2 to 12 of this 2025 Act.
(c) The department may establish  other accounts within the fund for the payment of
project costs, reserves, debt service payments, credit enhancement, administrative  costs and
operation expenses or any other purpose necessary to carry out sections 2 to 12 of this  2025
Act.
(2) Moneys in the fund may be invested as provided by ORS  293.701 to 293.857, and the
earnings from the investments shall be credited to the account in the fund designated  by the
department.
(3) The fund shall consist of moneys credited to the fund, including:
(a) Moneys appropriated to the fund by the Legislative Assembly;
(b) Moneys transferred to the fund by the department;
(c) Earnings on moneys in the fund;
(d) Repayment of  financial assistance, including interest, under sections 10 and 11 of this
2025 Act;
(e) Moneys received from the federal, state or local governments; and
(f) Moneys from any other source, including, but not limited to, grants and gifts.
(4)(a) The department may commit moneys in  the fund, or reserve future income of the
fund, for expenditure in future years in accordance with this section.
(b) The department may commit moneys or reserve future income  under this subsection
only after:
(A) Allowing for contingencies; and
(B) Determining that there will be sufficient unobligated net moneys in the fund to  make
the future payments, consistent with the requirements of this section.
SECTION 13.
 ORS 285B.012 is amended to read:
285B.012. (1) The Oregon Business Development Department may directly or  indirectly expend
or loan moneys in the  Industrial Lands Loan Fund established under ORS 285B.030 or extend credit
to:
[(1)] (a) Provide to project sponsors of an [ industrial land] eligible project related to industrial
land any allowable form of financial assistance that the department  considers appropriate, including
the refinancing of temporary project financing.
Enrolled House Bill 2411 (HB 2411-A) Page 6
[(2)] (b) Purchase goods or  services related to an eligible project on behalf of the project spon-
sor.
[(3)(a)] (c) Finance guaranty agreements  that are issued to guarantee any portion of the obli-
gation of a project sponsor to finance an industrial land development  project and that are not sold
to the State of Oregon.
[(b)] Guaranty agreements under this subsection shall be payable solely from  moneys in the fund
and shall not constitute a debt or obligation of the State of Oregon.
[(c)] (2)(a) The  department may, on behalf of the state, establish a special account in the fund
and commit to deposit into the special  account specified portions of current and future moneys
credited to the fund.
[(d)] (b) The commitments shall be made by rule  of the department and shall constitute
covenants of the state for the benefit of the owners  of obligations guaranteed by the state pursuant
to this section.
SECTION 14. The section captions used in this 2025 Act are provided only  for the con-
venience of the reader and do not become part of  the statutory law of this state or express
any legislative intent in the enactment of this 2025 Act.
Passed by House June 26, 2025
..................................................................................
Timothy G. Sekerak, Chief Clerk of House
..................................................................................
Julie Fahey, Speaker of House
Passed by Senate June 27, 2025
..................................................................................
Rob Wagner, President of Senate
Received by Governor:
........................M.,........................................................., 2025
Approved:
........................M.,........................................................., 2025
..................................................................................
Tina Kotek, Governor
Filed in Office of Secretary of State:
........................M.,........................................................., 2025
..................................................................................
Tobias Read, Secretary of State
Enrolled House Bill 2411 (HB 2411-A) Page 7