82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2023 Regular Session
Enrolled
Senate Bill 912
Sponsored by COMMITTEE ON LABOR AND BUSINESS (at the request of Employment Depart-
ment)
CHAPTER .................................................
AN ACT
Relating to the family and medical  leave insurance program; creating new provisions; amending ORS
657B.120, 657B.280, 657B.320 and 657B.410; and prescribing an effective date.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1. Sections 2 to 8 of this 2023 Act are added to  and made a part of ORS chapter
657B.
SECTION 2. Deduction of benefits paid in error not due to recipient fault; director dis-
cretion; civil action by director.  (1)(a) If  the Director of the Employment Department decides
that a covered individual has been paid benefits to which the covered individual is not  enti-
tled because of an  error not due to the covered individual providing a false statement or
misrepresentation of a material fact or not  disclosing a material fact, or because an initial
decision to pay benefits is subsequently reversed by a decision finding that the covered indi-
vidual is not eligible for the benefits, then the covered individual  is liable to have the amount
of any benefits paid in error deducted from  any future benefits otherwise payable to the
covered individual under this chapter for any week or weeks within  five years following the
week in which the decision establishing the erroneous payment became final.
(b) For  purposes of paragraph (a) of this subsection, the director may deduct all or any
part of the covered individual’s future weekly benefits.
(c) Any notice provided to a covered individual of the covered individual’s  liability for
recovery of benefits under this section must include a description of:
(A) The basis for the director’s decision that benefits have been overpaid; and
(B) The consequences  of the overpayment, including recovery of the overpaid amount and
the possibility of waiver under section 3 of this 2023 Act.
(2) Subject to ORS  657B.410, a decision of the director under this section does not au-
thorize the recovery  of the amount of any benefits paid to a covered individual until the de-
cision is final.
(3) The director may bring a civil  action against a covered individual to recover amounts
paid to the covered individual in excess of  the maximum benefits allowable pursuant to this
chapter.
SECTION 3.
Waiver of recovery of overpaid benefits.  (1) The  Director of the Employment
Department shall waive recovery of overpaid benefits under  section 2 of this 2023 Act if the
director finds that the benefits are recoverable due to a change in state law, the  application
of which has caused the disqualification of benefits previously paid.
Enrolled Senate Bill 912 (SB 912-A) Page 1
(2) The director may not waive recovery under this section of overpaid benefits  that are
subject to the penalty imposed under ORS 657B.120 (3).
(3) The director may waive  establishment and recovery of overpaid benefits when no de-
cision has been issued under ORS 657B.120 or section 2  of this 2023 Act and the amount of
the overpayment is equal to or less than one-half of  the maximum weekly benefit amount in
effect at the time the overpayment is discovered.
(4) Any  waiver granted under this section extinguishes all liability of the debtor for the
waived amounts.
SECTION 4. Ineligibility for benefits upon conviction of fraud in obtaining benefits. (1)
If a person is convicted by a court of competent jurisdiction  of willfully making a false
statement or misrepresentation, or  willfully failing to report a material fact, to obtain any
benefits under  this chapter, in addition to any penalties imposed by the court, the person
shall:
(a) Be ineligible for  benefits based upon wages paid to the person in the calendar quarter
in which the person was convicted and in all prior calendar quarters; and
(b) Be ineligible for benefits after the conviction until the person has reimbursed the Paid
Family and Medical Leave Insurance Fund established under ORS 657B.430 for the full
amount received as a result  of the false statement or misrepresentation or of the failure to
report a material fact.
(2) The provisions of this section are in addition and supplemental  to the provisions of
ORS 657B.120.
SECTION 5.
Cancellation of unrecoverable benefits. (1)(a) If any amount paid to a cov-
ered individual as benefits, for which the  covered individual has been found liable under the
provisions of ORS  657B.120 to repay or to have deducted from benefits payable, has been
neither repaid nor deducted within a period of five years following the date the decision es-
tablishing the overpayment became final, and is equal to or less than one-half of the  state
maximum weekly benefit amount in effect at the time the  overpayment is discovered, or
determined by the  Director of the Employment Department to be uncollectible, the over-
payment, together with the record of the overpayment and the resulting shortage,  may be
canceled.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this subsection,  the overpayment may not be can-
celed if the debt is being recovered by  payments or deductions that were received within the
last three months or  if repayment of the overpayment is required under section 4 of this 2023
Act.
(2) If an amount paid to a covered individual as benefits, for which the  covered individual
has been found liable under the  provisions of section 2 of this 2023 Act to have deducted from
benefits payable, has not been waived under section 3 of this 2023 Act, paid or deducted from
benefits otherwise payable to the covered individual for any week or  weeks within five years
following the week in which the decision establishing the overpayment  became final, the
overpayment, together with the record of the overpayment and the resulting shortage,  shall
be canceled.
(3) When  in the judgment of the director the best interests of the Employment Depart-
ment are served in an effort to settle accounts, the director may waive, reduce or compro-
mise any part or all  of the interest or penalty charged pursuant to ORS 657B.120. The
director may determine that the  amount of interest or penalty due and unpaid is uncollect-
ible, and write off the amount. In making  the determination that interest or a penalty is
uncollectible, the director shall consider, among other factors:
(a) The administrative costs of  continued collection efforts in relation to the amount due;
(b) The accessibility of the debtor for effective collection actions; and
(c) The debtor’s financial condition and ability  to pay the amount due, both current and
projected.
Enrolled Senate Bill 912 (SB 912-A) Page 2
SECTION 6. Request for offset of moneys owed to debtor by Department  of Revenue
against certain amounts owed by debtor; fees.  (1)  The Director of the Employment Depart-
ment may  pay a fee charged by the Department of Revenue pursuant to ORS 293.250 for
processing a request to offset against liquidated state debt  a state tax refund owed to the
debtor.
(2) The net amount received from the Department of Revenue after deduction  of fees
charged under subsection (1) of this section shall be offset against the debt.
SECTION 7. Penalties for employers with employer-offered benefit plans.  (1) If the Di-
rector of the Employment Department determines that an employer that offers  benefits
pursuant to a plan approved under ORS 657B.210 has at  any time violated any requirements
applicable to plans approved under ORS 657B.210, the director may assess the following pen-
alties against the employer:
(a) $1,000 for the first violation.
(b) $2,000 for the second and each subsequent violation.
(2) The director may waive collection of a penalty assessed  under subsection (1) of this
section if the employer corrects the violation within 30 days of receiving a notice of the vi-
olation and the notice is for a first violation.
(3) The director  may waive collection of any penalties if the director determines the vi-
olation to be an inadvertent error by the employer.
(4) Monetary penalties collected under this section shall  be deposited in the Paid Family
and Medical Leave Insurance Fund established under ORS 657B.430.
(5) The decision of the  director to assess a penalty under this section shall become final
unless within 20 days following the date of the  notice informing the employer of the penalty,
the employer submits a  written request for a hearing under ORS 657B.410 to review the
director’s decision. A decision of the  director to assess a penalty under this section does not
authorize the collection of the penalty until the decision becomes final.
SECTION 8.
Authority of director to compromise or adjust  debts or overpayments.  When
in the judgment of the Director of the  Employment Department the best interests of the
Employment Department are served, the director may:
(1) Waive, reduce or compromise any balance of $10  or less from a contribution due un-
der ORS 657B.150; or
(2) Retain any overpayment of $10 or less from a contribution paid under ORS 657B.150.
SECTION 9.
 ORS 657B.120 is amended to read:
657B.120. (1)  An employer may not willfully make or cause to be made false statements or
willfully fail to report a material fact regarding the claim of an  eligible employee or regarding an
employee’s eligibility for family and medical leave insurance benefits under this chapter.
(2) The Director of the Employment Department may assess a  civil penalty in an amount not to
exceed $1,000 against an employer for each occurrence that violates subsection (1) of this section.
(3) If the director determines that  a covered individual willfully made a false statement or
willfully failed to report a material fact in order to  obtain benefits under this chapter, the covered
individual is:
(a) Disqualified from claiming benefits for one year; and
(b) Liable for a  penalty imposed at a rate prescribed by the director of at least 15 percent, but
not greater than 30 percent, of the  amount of benefits the covered individual received to which the
covered individual was not entitled.
(4)(a) If the director  determines that a covered individual has received benefits to which the
covered individual was not entitled, the director may:
[(a)] (A) Seek repayment of benefits  from the covered individual in a manner prescribed by the
director by rule; [ and] or
[(b)] (B) Have the amount of the benefits deducted from any  future benefits otherwise payable
to the covered individual under ORS 657B.100.
Enrolled Senate Bill 912 (SB 912-A) Page 3
(b) For purposes of paragraph (a)(B) of this  subsection, the director may deduct all or
any part of the covered individual’s future weekly benefits.
(c) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this subsection, benefits described in paragraph
(a) of this subsection may be collected for  any week or weeks within five years following the
week in which the decision establishing the erroneous payment became final.
(d) Notwithstanding paragraph (c) of this subsection, overpaid benefits subject to the
penalty imposed under subsection (3)(b) of this section may be collected at any time.
(e) Notice provided to  a covered individual of the covered individual’s liability for recov-
ery of benefits under this section must include a description of:
(A) The basis for the director’s decision that benefits have been overpaid; and
(B) The  consequences of the overpayment, including the methods of recovery of the
overpaid amount, with interest and penalties, and the possibility of  waiver under section 3
of this 2023 Act.
(5) If benefits are paid because of an error that is not due to provision  of a false statement,
nondisclosure of a  material fact or misrepresentation by a covered individual, the director may
waive, in whole or in part, the amount of any such payments for which recovery under subsection
(4) of this section would be against equity, good conscience or administrative efficiency.
(6) A decision of the director under this section does not authorize the  recovery of the amount
of any benefits paid to a covered individual until the decision is final and the decision specifies:
(a) That  the covered individual, by reason of false statement, nondisclosure or misrepresen-
tation, is liable to repay the amount to the Paid Family and Medical Leave Insurance Fund  estab-
lished under ORS 657B.430;
(b) The nature of the false statement, nondisclosure or misrepresentation;
(c) The week or weeks for which the benefits were paid; and
(d) That any amount subject to recovery and any penalty due under  this section may be col-
lected by the director in a civil action against the employer or covered individual brought in the
name of the director.
(7)(a) The director may bring  a civil action against a covered individual to collect any
amount subject to recovery and any penalty due under this section.
(b) Any judgment rendered shall bear interest at the rate provided  in subsection (8) of
this section.
(8) Interest  on any amount liable to be repaid under this section shall be paid and col-
lected at the same time repayment of benefits is made by  the covered individual, at the rate
of one percent per month. In computing the interest, a fraction  of a month shall be counted
as a full month.
(9)(a) Deductions from paid family  and medical leave insurance benefits pursuant to
subsection (4)  of this section shall be applied solely to the amount of the benefits liable to
be repaid under this section.
(b) All other payments shall be applied first to court  costs, then to penalties, then to
interest, then to the amount liable to be repaid.
(10) The following amounts collected under this section shall be paid  into the Paid Family
and Medical Leave Insurance Fund established under ORS 657B.430:
(a) Amounts in repayment of benefits;
(b) Amounts collected as interest under subsection (8) of this section; and
(c) The penalties imposed under subsection (3)(b) of this section.
[(7)] (11) The director shall adopt rules establishing standards and  procedures for the repayment
of benefits and payment of penalties and interest under this section.
[(8)] (12) An employer or  covered individual may appeal a determination made under this section
as provided in ORS 657B.410.
SECTION 10.
 ORS 657B.280 is amended to read:
657B.280. (1) This section applies to:
Enrolled Senate Bill 912 (SB 912-A) Page 4
(a) An employer that fails to remit to the Department of Revenue any  amount of contributions
due under ORS 657B.150;
(b) An individual liable to repay any amount of benefits paid under this chapter to  which the
individual was not entitled; [ and]
(c) A person liable under ORS 657B.330 for amounts due under this chapter[ .];
(d) A self-employed individual or tribal government that fails to remit to the Department
of Revenue any amount of contributions due under ORS 657B.130;
(e) An employer  liable to repay any amount of grant moneys awarded under ORS 657B.200
for which the employer was not eligible; and
(f) An individual or an employer liable for any amounts due under this chapter.
(2) If a judgment or final administrative  order is rendered in favor of the Director of the Em-
ployment Department for amounts described  in subsection (1) of this section, the amounts shall be
a lien in favor of the director upon all property, whether real or personal,  belonging to the em-
ployer, individual or person.
(3) The lien shall be perfected and attach:
(a) To real and personal property located  within the county, upon the recording of a warrant,
as provided in ORS 657B.300, with the clerk of the county in which the property is located.
(b) To personal property wherever located within the state, upon:
(A) The recording of a warrant, as  provided in ORS 657B.300, with the clerk of any county; and
(B) The filing of a copy of the warrant with the Secretary of State as provided  in ORS 657B.290.
(4) The lien created by this section may be foreclosed by a suit in the  circuit court in the
manner provided by law for the foreclosure of other liens on real or personal property.
SECTION 11.
 ORS 657B.320 is amended to read:
657B.320. (1) If an employer defaults with respect to  any amount of contributions required to
be made by the employer  to the Paid Family and Medical Leave Insurance Fund established under
ORS 657B.430 or with respect to the repayment  of any grant moneys awarded to the employer
under ORS  657B.200 for which the employer was not eligible , the unpaid amount, together with
interest and penalties, shall be collected by the Director of the Employment Department in a  civil
action against the employer brought in the name of the director.
(2)(a) Judgment rendered on a civil action brought  under subsection (1) of this section in favor
of the director shall bear interest at the rate provided in subsection (3) of this section.
(b) An employer’s compliance with the requirements of ORS 657B.150  shall date from the time
that contributions were collected from the employer  or grants were received by the employer .
(c) The amount  of contributions or any grant repayment described in subsection (1) of this
section collected from an employer, together with  interest and penalties, shall be paid into the fund.
(3)(a) Interest upon any amounts due from an employer shall be paid and collected at  the rate
of one and one-half percent per month from  the date prescribed for the payment to the fund. In
computing the interest, a fraction of a month shall be counted as a full month.
(b) Interest shall be paid at the same time contributions  or  grant repayments  are required to
be paid by the employer to the fund.
(4) If an employer fails to pay contributions required by ORS 657B.150 at the time prescribed
by the director, the employer shall be in default.
(5) If an employer is awarded grant moneys under ORS  657B.200 for which the employer
was not eligible and the employer fails to repay the moneys to the Employment  Department
within 30  days after receiving notice from the department explaining the employer’s obli-
gation to repay the moneys, the employer shall be in default.
[(5)] (6) If an employer that is in default with respect  to payment of contributions or a grant
repayment fails to make  payment within 10 days after written demand has been made by the di-
rector, the employer shall be subject to  a penalty of 10 percent of the amount of the contributions
or the grant repayment . A demand for payment shall be deemed to have been made  when depos-
ited in the mail addressed to the employer at the employer’s last known address of record with  the
director.
Enrolled Senate Bill 912 (SB 912-A) Page 5
[(6)] (7)(a) If any part of a deficiency  is due to fraud with intent to avoid payment of contrib-
utions to the fund, then 50 percent  of the total amount of the deficiency, in addition to the defi-
ciency, shall be assessed,  collected and paid, in the same manner as if it were a deficiency, and
deposited in the fund.
(b) If  an employer’s award of grant moneys under ORS 657B.200 was obtained by fraud
or misrepresentation by the employer, then 50 percent of the total amount of the  grant
award, in  addition to the amount of the grant repayment due to the department, shall be
assessed, collected and paid, in the same manner as if it were  a deficiency, and deposited in
the fund.
[(7)] (8) Civil actions brought in the name of the director under this  section to collect contrib-
utions, grant repayments,  interest or penalties from an  employer shall be entitled to preference
upon the calendar over all civil cases that involve only private parties.
[(8)(a)] (9)(a) Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, the director may agree  to accept
from an employer or former employer with a delinquent account any amount the director finds rea-
sonable under the circumstances as consideration in settlement of the  full amount of contributions,
grant repayments,  interest or penalties due if the director finds that:
(A) The  total interest collectible on the delinquent account is in excess of 25 percent of the
principal;
(B) The  employer or former employer no longer conducts an active business and has insufficient
net assets to pay the full amount of all  contributions, grant repayments,  interest or penalties due;
and
(C) The employer or former employer can pay some but not all of the delinquent amounts.
(b) Whenever a settlement agreement is  made pursuant to paragraph (a) of this subsection, a
written record signed by the director shall be maintained in the files of  the director. Such records
shall set forth:
(A) The name of the employer or former employer against whom the liability was assessed;
(B) The amount of the assessed liability;
(C) The amount of the liability paid;
(D) The amount of the liability canceled or waived; and
(E) A sworn statement of the employer or  former employer setting forth the complete financial
responsibility of the employer or former  employer and containing a full disclosure of all matters
bearing upon the ability of the employer or former  employer to pay the full amount of the liability
assessed.
[(9)] (10) The director shall file a full and true copy  of the record of each settlement agreement
with the Secretary of State as a public record.
[(10)] (11) Any  amount agreed to in settlement of the director’s claims on behalf of the fund
pursuant to subsection [ (8)(a)] (9)(a) of this section shall be first credited  to the contributions or
grant repayments  due from the employer or former employer , whichever is applicable,  until  the
principal amount of contributions or grant repayments  due  has been satisfied and shall be depos-
ited in the fund.
SECTION 12.
 ORS 657B.410 is amended to read:
657B.410. (1) The Director of the Employment Department shall establish a process by which:
(a) An employer may request a hearing  to obtain review of a final decision of the director re-
garding any of the following:
(A) Approval or denial of an employer’s application for approval of a plan under ORS
657B.210[.];
(B) The assessment of penalties under section 7 of this 2023 Act; or
(C) A determination made under ORS 657B.120.
(b) A  covered individual may request a hearing to obtain review of a final decision of the di-
rector regarding any of the following :
(A) Approval or denial of a claim submitted to the director for payment of  family and medical
leave insurance benefits;
Enrolled Senate Bill 912 (SB 912-A) Page 6
(B) The weekly  benefit amount payable to a covered individual as determined under ORS
657B.050; or
(C) Disqualification from the receipt of benefits including liability or repayment of  benefits as
determined under ORS 657B.120 and section 2 of this 2023 Act .
(2) Notwithstanding ORS 183.315,  the process established by the director under this section shall
comply with provisions for a contested case under ORS chapter 183 and is  subject to judicial review
as provided in ORS 183.482.
SECTION 13. Applicability. (1) Sections 2 to  5 of this 2023 Act and the amendments to
ORS 657B.120 by section 9 of this 2023  Act apply to benefits paid on or after September 3,
2023.
(2) Section 6 of  this 2023 Act applies to amounts owed by a debtor on or after January
1, 2023.
(3) Section 7 of this 2023 Act applies to penalties assessed on or after September 3, 2023.
(4) Section 8 of this 2023 Act applies to contributions due  or paid on or after January 1,
2023.
(5) The amendments  to ORS 657B.280 by section 10 of this 2023 Act apply to amounts due
or liable to be repaid on or after January 1, 2023.
(6) The amendments to ORS  657B.320 by section 11 of this 2023 Act apply to grant moneys
awarded on or after September 3, 2023.
(7) The amendments to ORS 657B.410 by section 12 of this 2023 Act apply to final  deci-
sions of the director issued on or after September 3, 2023.
SECTION 14.
The section  captions used in this 2023 Act are provided only for the con-
venience of the reader and do not become part  of the statutory law of this state or express
any legislative intent in the enactment of this 2023 Act.
SECTION 15. This 2023 Act takes effect on the 91st day after the date on  which the 2023
regular session of the Eighty-second Legislative Assembly adjourns sine die.
Passed by Senate March 23, 2023
..................................................................................
Lori L. Brocker, Secretary of Senate
..................................................................................
Rob Wagner, President of Senate
Passed by House May 9, 2023
..................................................................................
Dan Rayfield, Speaker of House
Received by Governor:
........................M.,........................................................., 2023
Approved:
........................M.,........................................................., 2023
..................................................................................
Tina Kotek, Governor
Filed in Office of Secretary of State:
........................M.,........................................................., 2023
..................................................................................
Secretary of State
Enrolled Senate Bill 912 (SB 912-A) Page 7