1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2807
Introduced and printed pursuant to  House Rule 12.00. Presession filed (at the request of Governor Tina Kotek for
Psychiatric Security Review Board)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act says that the PSRB is immune from liability for some  acts of the board and acts
of persons let go by the board. (Flesch Readability Score: 73.1).
Provides that the Psychiatric Security Review Board is immune  from liability for the perform-
ance of certain functions of the  board. Provides that, except when the board commits wanton and
willful misconduct, the board is immune from liability for the acts and omissions of a  person who
is or was under the jurisdiction of the board.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to the liability of the Psychiatric Security Review Board.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
Section 2 of this 2025 Act is added to and made a part of ORS 30.265 to 30.300.
SECTION 2. (1) The Psychiatric Security Review Board is immune from liability for any
claim for injury to or death of  any person or injury to property resulting from an act or
omission of the board with respect to the following functions:
(a) Conducting hearings as required by law to determine the appropriate status,  release
or commitment of persons under the jurisdiction of the board.
(b) Conducting hearings as required by law to determine whether to classify or reclassify
a sex offender or whether to relieve a person from the obligation to report as a sex  offender.
(c) Conducting hearings  as required by law to determine whether to restore a person’s
right to possess firearms.
(d) Conducting assessments as required by law to classify sex offenders.
(e) Making decisions as required by law pertaining to the oversight and  supervision of
persons placed on conditional release in the community.
(f) Making decisions as required by law pertaining to the  modification and termination
of conditional release plans.
(g) Making decisions as required by law pertaining to whether a person should be  certi-
fied for another period of commitment.
(2) Except when the board has committed willful  or wanton misconduct, the board is
immune from liability for any claim for  injury to or death of any person or injury to property
resulting from an act or omission  of a person who is or was under the jurisdiction of the
board while the person is on conditional release  or discharged from the jurisdiction of the
board.
SECTION 3.
(1) Except as provided  in subsection (2) of this section, section 2 of this 2025
Act applies to all causes of action, whether arising before, on  or after the effective date of
this 2025 Act.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 401
HB 2807
1
2
3
4
5
6
(2)(a) Section 2 of this 2025 Act does not apply to causes of action for which  a final
judgment has been entered before the effective date of this 2025 Act.
(b) As used in this subsection, “final judgment” means a judgment for  which the time to
appeal has expired without any party filing an  appeal or that is not subject to further appeal
or review.
[2]