1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
80th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2019 Regular Session
House Bill 2851
Sponsored by COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENT (at the request of Representative Ken Helm)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Authorizes Water Resources Department to require reporting of water use measurements.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to the measurement of appropriated water.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Legislative Assembly finds and declares that:
(a) Water use data is a fundamental tool to ensure efficient water management, ensure
effective water distribution and help plan for future water needs; and
(b) The measurement and reporting of water use benefits all water appropriators  and is
critical to the effective management of the water resources of this state.
(2) It is the policy of this state to:
(a) Actively promote measurement and reporting of water use by water  appropriators;
and
(b) Encourage federal, state and local government coordination and cooperation in pro-
viding financial support to water appropriators for water use measurement and reporting.
SECTION 2.
(1) If the Water Resources Department requires an entity  to measure the
use of water diverted, stored or otherwise appropriated by the entity under a  right estab-
lished by a water right permit, water right certificate, limited license, decree, order  of de-
termination or ground water registration, the department  may require the entity to report
the measured use to the department.
(2) The Water Resources Commission shall adopt rules as provided under ORS  536.027 to
carry out subsection (1) of this section.
SECTION 3. Section 2 of this 2019 Act applies to appropriations of water under a  right
established before, on or after the effective date of this 2019 Act.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1781