1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 3375
Sponsored by Representative SANCHEZ
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act tells the ADPC to study programs related to  youth substance use prevention
and SUD treatment. (Flesch Readability Score: 65.1).
Directs the Alcohol and Drug Policy Commission to inventory  and assess existing primary pre-
vention programs and youth substance  use screening, intervention and referral programs. Directs
the commission to analyze gaps in the provider  workforce and service delivery system for youth in
need of all levels of substance use disorder treatment.  Requires the commission to report to the
Legislative Assembly on its findings and recommendations.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to youth substance abuse.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) As used in  this section, “primary prevention” means a public health
strategy of intervening  before negative health effects have occurred to delay or prevent
young persons’ use of harmful substances.
(2) The Alcohol and Drug Policy Commission shall conduct:
(a) A comprehensive inventory and assessment  of existing primary prevention programs
in this state, including the current workforce, types of entities supporting or administering
the programs, types of interventions being utilized, effectiveness of the programs, funding
streams and areas of unmet need.
(b) A  comprehensive inventory and assessment of existing substance use screening,
intervention and referral programs in this state that are school-based or provided by youth-
serving agencies or organizations, including an assessment  of the feasibility of increasing the
services of the programs.
(c) An assessment  of existing gaps in the provider workforce and service delivery system
for youth in need  of all levels of substance use disorder treatment, including intensive out-
patient treatment, residential  treatment, withdrawal management and treatment for co-
occurring disorders.
(3) No later than September 15, 2026, the commission shall report to  the interim com-
mittees of the Legislative Assembly related to  health, in the manner provided in ORS 192.245,
on the commission’s findings and recommendations under this section.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 4112