1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
81st OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2021 Regular Session
House Bill 2907
Sponsored by Representative REARDON, Senator GORSEK; Representative WILDE (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Appropriates moneys from General Fund to Higher Education Coordinating  Commission for
Community College Support Fund for distribution to community colleges and community  college
service districts.
Appropriates moneys from General Fund  to Higher Education Coordinating Commission for Of-
fice of Community Colleges and Workforce Development for purpose of  addressing inequities in ed-
ucational attainment among systemically marginalized communities and  to support innovation and
best practices.
Declares emergency, effective July 1, 2021.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to state financial administration; and declaring an emergency.
Whereas community  colleges are the only sector of public post-secondary education that serves
any student regardless of education and skill level; and
Whereas community colleges are essential education and  service providers for the very com-
munities hit hardest by the COVID-19 pandemic and the recession that followed; and
Whereas community colleges serve the largest  number of underrepresented and first-generation
students of any sector of Oregon post-secondary education; and
Whereas community  colleges are critical providers of career and technical education, workforce
training and short-term certificates; and
Whereas community colleges serve as a bridge between  high schools and a four-year degree; and
Whereas community colleges  provide General Educational Development (GED) programs and are
major partners in offering college-level course to high school students; and
Whereas cuts to the Community College Support Fund  have a direct impact on students by
forcing colleges to cut programs, raise tuition or implement some combination of both; and
Whereas community colleges educate and train the skilled workforce that local businesses  and
job seekers need to thrive; now, therefore,
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
There is appropriated to the Higher Education  Coordinating Commission, for
the biennium beginning July 1, 2021, out of the General Fund,  the amount of $702 million for
deposit into the Community College Support Fund established under ORS 341.620  for distrib-
ution to community colleges and community college service districts.
SECTION 2. There is appropriated to the Higher Education  Coordinating Commission, for
the biennium beginning July 1, 2021, out of the General Fund,  the amount of $35 million for
the Office of Community Colleges and Workforce Development  for the purpose of addressing
inequities in educational attainment among systemically marginalized communities and  to
support innovation and best practices.
SECTION 3. This 2021 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1770
HB 2907
1
2
3
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist,  and this 2021 Act takes effect
July 1, 2021.
[2]