1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2026 Regular Session
House Bill 4143
Sponsored by Representative CHOTZEN, Senator BROADMAN, Representatives GRAYBER, ANDERSEN, CHAICHI,
GAMBA, JAVADI, RIEKE SMITH, WALTERS, WISE, Senators CAMPOS, PHAM K; Representatives
BOWMAN, EVANS, ISADORE, MARSH, MCDONALD,  MUNOZ, NATHANSON, NELSON, NGUYEN D,
PHAM H, Senators GELSER BLOUIN, JAMA, NERON  MISSLIN, PROZANSKI, REYNOLDS (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act lets the state  not pay money to the U.S. if the U.S. unlawfully keeps money
away from the state. (Flesch Readability Score: 76.7).
Authorizes the Governor to direct state  agencies to withhold moneys owed to the federal gov-
ernment if federal funds are being withheld  from the state in contravention of a valid court
order. Requires  the state to indemnify officers, employees  or agents for civil claims arising from
compliance with the Act.
Takes effect on the 91st day following adjournment sine die.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to payments to the federal government; and prescribing an effective date.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) As used in this section:
(a) “Executive agency” means all state officers, boards, commissions, departments, in-
stitutions, branches, agencies, divisions and other entities, without regard to the designation
given to those entities,  that are within the executive branch of government as described in
Article III, section 1, of the Oregon Constitution.
(b) “Federal government” means the United States  or any agency or instrumentality of
the United States.
(c) “Qualified payment” means moneys that a state agency is obligated to transfer to the
federal government  pursuant to contract or federal law, but excluding payroll taxes for offi-
cers or employees of state agencies.
(d) “State agency” means every  state officer, board, commission, department, institution,
branch or agency of the state government, whose costs are paid  wholly or in part from funds
held in the State Treasury.
(e) “Unlawfully withheld  federal moneys” means moneys that are subject to a valid order
of a court of competent jurisdiction requiring the transfer of the moneys  from the federal
government to a state agency and that have not been so transferred.
(2) The Governor, with the consent of the Attorney General  and the State Treasurer,
may direct an executive agency to withhold qualified payments from the  federal government
if unlawfully withheld federal moneys are owed to the state.
(3) An executive agency  that is directed to withhold qualified payments under this section
shall transfer the qualified payments to the Federal Moneys Holding Account established
under section 2 of this 2026 Act.
(4) When the Governor  determines that the amount of moneys in the Federal Moneys
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 175
HB 4143
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
Holding Account exceeds the aggregate amount of  unlawfully withheld federal moneys, the
Governor shall:
(a) Direct one or more executive  agencies to pay qualified payments to the federal gov-
ernment to the extent of the excess; and
(b) Direct the Oregon  Department of Administrative Services to transfer moneys to the
executive agencies from the Federal Moneys Holding Account in amounts sufficient  to make
the qualified payments.
(5) The State of Oregon shall defend, save  harmless and indemnify any of its officers,
employees and agents, whether elective or appointive, against any civil  claim arising out of
an act or omission taken in compliance with the provisions of this section.
SECTION 2.
The Federal Moneys Holding Account is established in the State  Treasury,
separate and distinct from the General Fund. Interest earned by the Federal  Moneys Holding
Account must be credited to the account. The Federal  Moneys Holding Account consists of
moneys deposited in  the account under section 1 of this 2026 Act and interest earned on
moneys in the account. The moneys  in the account are continuously appropriated to the
Oregon Department  of Administrative Services. The department shall transfer moneys from
the account as directed by the Governor under section 1 of this 2026 Act.
SECTION 3. This 2026 Act takes effect on the 91st day after the date on which the 2026
regular session of the Eighty-third Legislative Assembly adjourns sine die.
[2]