1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
81st OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2021 Regular Session
House Bill 2575
Sponsored by Representatives MARSH, REYNOLDS, WILLIAMS (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Directs Department of Justice to establish program  for awarding grants to law enforcement
agencies and local governments for  training of groups and agencies that interact with persons who
have experienced trauma. Directs department to develop model training program that takes into
account effects of trauma and that has objective of minimizing further trauma.
Directs Department of Public Safety Standards and Training, in consultation with  Department
of Justice, to develop best practices for law enforcement agencies when interacting with persons
who have experienced trauma that take into account effects of trauma and that have  objective of
minimizing further trauma. Requires law  enforcement agencies to adopt appropriate best practice
policies by date specified by Department of Public Safety Standards and Training.
Directs Department of Public Safety Standards and Training  to review and update training
consistent with Department of Justice model training program for  law enforcement personnel in
training academy.
Appropriates moneys from General Fund to Department of Justice for  purpose of awarding
training grants.
Takes effect on 91st day following adjournment sine die.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to interactions with persons who have experienced  trauma; and prescribing an effective
date.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Department of Justice shall establish a program for awarding grants
to law enforcement agencies and local governments  to fund training for groups and agencies
that interact with persons who have experienced trauma.
(2) A law enforcement agency or local government may apply for a grant under this
section to fund training for law enforcement agencies,  district attorneys, sexual assault
nurse examiners, emergency communications workers, victim  advocates or any other group
or agency the law enforcement agency or local government determines appropriate for the
training. The application may request funding for an  established training program provided
by an outside entity, or for  the development of a training program within the group or
agency or in cooperation with other groups or agencies.
(3) The department shall by rule establish the application process and eligibility criteria
for the grant program. At a minimum,  the training program for which a law enforcement
agency or local government requests funding  must be consistent with the model training
program described in subsection (5) of this section.
(4) The department  shall by rule establish the process of awarding grants under this
section. No later than January 1, 2023, the  department shall award grants in accordance with
the rules  of the program. When awarding grants under this section, the department shall
consider the community partnerships of the group or agency for which the law  enforcement
agency or local government seeks funding.
(5) No later than January 1, 2022, the department shall develop a model training program
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 848
HB 2575
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
for groups and  agencies that interact with persons who have experienced trauma. The model
training program must, at a minimum:
(a) Be research-based and take into account the psychological and  neurological effects
of trauma;
(b) Utilize best practices when recommending techniques  for interacting with persons
who have experienced trauma;
(c) Have the objective of minimizing further trauma; and
(d) Take into account the impact of structural racism and other forms of historical
trauma.
(6) The  department shall by rule establish outcome measures to be used for evaluating
grant program performance.
(7) In adopting rules under subsections (3) and (4) of this section, and in developing  the
model training program described in subsection (5) of this section,  the department shall
consult with subject matter experts  from community-based organizations, including organ-
izations that represent individuals who are Black, Indigenous and People of Color (BIPOC).
SECTION 2.
(1) No later than January  1, 2022, the Department of Public Safety Standards
and Training, in consultation with the Department of  Justice, shall develop best practices for
law enforcement agencies when interacting with persons who have experienced trauma.
(2)(a) The best  practices developed under this section must offer alternative options for
law enforcement agencies of varying size and resource capacity.
(b) The best practices developed under this section must, at a minimum:
(A) Be research-based and take into  account the psychological and neurological effects
of trauma;
(B) Recommend techniques for interacting with persons who have experienced trauma;
(C) Have the objective of minimizing further trauma;
(D) Take into account the impact of  structural racism and other forms of historical
trauma;
(E) Require law enforcement officers to consider the effects of trauma when working  on
a case;
(F) Recommend techniques for interviewing persons who have experienced trauma; and
(G) Provide recommendations for writing reports based on  interviews with persons who
have experienced trauma.
(3) Law enforcement agencies within  this state shall adopt appropriate best practice
policies for interacting with persons who have experienced  trauma no later than the date
established by the Department of Public Safety Standards and Training by rule.
(4) The Department of Public Safety Standards and  Training shall adopt rules to carry
out the provisions of this section.
SECTION 3.
Beginning January 1, 2022, the Department of Public Safety Standards and
Training shall review and, if  necessary, update training on interacting with persons who have
experienced trauma, consistent with the model training program developed by the Depart-
ment of Justice under section 1 of this 2021  Act, for all law enforcement personnel who enter
the training academy operated by the Department of Public Safety Standards and Training.
SECTION 4.
In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there is appropri-
ated to the Department of Justice, for the biennium beginning July 1, 2021, out of the  Gen-
eral Fund, the amount  of $ , which may be expended for the purposes described in
[2]
HB 2575
1
2
3
4
section 1 of this 2021 Act.
SECTION 5.
This 2021 Act takes effect on the 91st day after the date on  which the 2021
regular session of the Eighty-first Legislative Assembly adjourns sine die.
[3]