1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2023 Regular Session
Senate Bill 1082
Sponsored by Senators DEMBROW, FREDERICK,  MANNING JR, Representatives RUIZ, SOSA; Senator
PROZANSKI, Representatives HUDSON, NERON, PHAM K
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced.
Requires Higher Education  Coordinating Commission to establish project connecting adults in
custody and former adults in custody to  community colleges, public universities and apprenticeship
programs. Sets forth project requirements.
Establishes Oregon Rebound Fund to support project.
Requires commission to work with  Bureau of Labor and Industries and community corrections
agencies to establish statewide network to assist adults in  custody and former adults in custody in
enrolling in appropriate post-secondary classes, post-secondary programs and apprenticeship pro-
grams. Requires commission to hire five regional navigators to run statewide network. Details re-
quirements of network and navigators.
Declares emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to enhancing successful transitions for  formerly incarcerated Oregonians; and declaring an
emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Higher Education Coordinating Commission shall establish a project
that connects adults in custody and  former adults in custody to community colleges operated
under ORS chapter  341, public universities listed in ORS 352.002 and apprenticeship pro-
grams.
(2) The project developed under this section shall:
(a) Establish at least one  institutional partnership between a public university and one
or more community colleges;
(b) Design a program  that is colocated between institutions that partner under paragraph
(a) of this subsection to help adults in custody and former adults in custody:
(A) Achieve their educational and career goals;
(B) Build mentorship and leadership skills; and
(C) Navigate common obstacles to successful reentry into society that are faced by  for-
mer adults in custody; and
(c) Create effective pathways for adults in custody and former adults  in custody to
quickly and easily enroll in appropriate post-secondary classes, post-secondary programs and
apprenticeship programs.
(3) The commission shall ensure that the project developed under this section:
(a) Includes former adults in custody as project leaders and peer mentors; and
(b) Serves as a  support center for participants throughout their studies, including for
former adults in custody who  transfer from a community college to a public university that
has partnered with the community college under subsection (2)(a) of this section.
(4) The commission may adopt rules necessary for the effective  implementation of this
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 4329
SB 1082
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
section.
SECTION 2.
The Oregon Rebound Fund is established in the State Treasury, separate and
distinct from the General Fund. Interest earned by the Oregon  Rebound Fund shall be
credited to the fund.
(2) Moneys in the Oregon Rebound Fund shall consist of:
(a) Amounts donated to the fund from individuals or private organizations;
(b) Grants or monetary awards provided to the fund from any source;
(c) Amounts appropriated or otherwise transferred to the fund by  the Legislative As-
sembly; and
(d) Interest earned by the fund.
(3) Moneys in the fund are  continuously appropriated to the Higher Education Coordi-
nating Commission for the purpose of operating  the project described in section 1 of this 2023
Act.
SECTION 3.
(1) The Higher Education Coordinating Commission shall work with the Bu-
reau of Labor and Industries and community corrections agencies in this  state to establish
a statewide network to assist adults in custody and  former adults in custody in enrolling in
appropriate post-secondary classes, post-secondary programs and apprenticeship programs.
(2) As part of the statewide network established under this section, the commission shall
hire five regional navigators. In order to be eligible to be hired as a regional navigator under
this section, an individual must have previously been incarcerated.
(3) The five regional navigators hired under this section shall:
(a) Be individually responsible for, and focus on, providing services and  connecting adults
in custody and former  adults in custody with educational and training programs in a specific
regional area in this state;
(b) Collectively provide services to every region in this state;
(c) Periodically work collectively as part of a statewide team; and
(d) Serve as guides and mentors to adults in custody and former adults in custody by:
(A) Preparing adults in custody for their release from incarceration; and
(B) Linking adults in custody and former adults in custody to the educational  and train-
ing programs that best suit each individual’s needs and geographic location.
(4) The commission may  adopt rules necessary for the effective implementation of this
section.
SECTION 4.
This 2023 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the  public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is  declared to exist, and this 2023 Act takes effect
on its passage.
[2]