1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 1065
Sponsored by COMMITTEE ON HUMAN SERVICES
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act sets up a center to teach people about their options when they need help
making life decisions. (Flesch Readability Score: 71.7).
Establishes the Center for Decision-Making Supports.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to supported decision-making.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) As used in this section, “supported decision-making” means an individ-
ualized process  of supporting and accommodating an individual who is an adult with a disa-
bility to enable  the individual to make life decisions without impeding the individual’s
self-determination.
(2) The Center for  Decision-Making Supports is established in the office of the Long Term
Care Ombudsman.
(3) The primary functions of the center are:
(a) To develop a system  by which accurate and easily understandable information re-
garding guardianship, supported decision-making and other alternatives to guardianship may
be made available to individuals who  require supports or assistance and are exploring their
options;
(b) To serve as a one-stop educational resource for families  of adults with disabilities or
children with disabilities who are transitioning to adulthood, and adults with disabilities and
their families who are looking for  specific information regarding youth transitioning to
adulthood and independence, guardianships,  supported decision-making, health care direc-
tives, powers of attorney and other alternatives to guardianships;
(c) To provide referrals to advocacy organizations, referrals for  legal assistance or other
forms of technical assistance; and
(d) To enhance cross-agency collaboration on  guardianship issues to improve service de-
livery and support.
(4) The center shall inform the public about the center’s services and shall make the in-
formation described in this section available online.
(5) The Long Term Care Ombudsman may adopt rules necessary  to implement the pro-
visions of this section.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 3746