1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
80th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2019 Regular Session
House Bill 2594
Sponsored by Representatives FAHEY, WILDE, Senator PROZANSKI; Representative LIVELY (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Appropriates moneys from General Fund to Higher Education Coordinating  Commission for
Sustainable City Year Program at University of Oregon.
Declares emergency, effective July 1, 2019.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to Sustainable City Year Program at the University of Oregon; and declaring  an emer-
gency.
Whereas Oregon communities seek assistance on issues of economic development,  responsible
use of limited fiscal resources, transportation, housing,  community engagement and other local
quality of life issues; and
Whereas the Sustainable City Year Program  is a program at the University of Oregon estab-
lished to connect Oregon cities and local governments to  the innovative, dedicated and energetic
brainpower of students and faculty members; and
Whereas the Sustainable City Year Program offers students the opportunity to  apply classroom
concepts and academic tools to real community issues; and
Whereas the Sustainable City Year Program hones students’  skills in high-demand workforce
competencies to develop employment-ready graduates; and
Whereas the Sustainable City Year Program has become  a model for more than 30 universities
across the country and around the world; and
Whereas Oregon communities desire access to the latest  knowledge and best practices in prac-
tical formats to advance community values and goals; and
Whereas the Sustainable City Year Program  has a track record of tangible community impact
and is scalable to Oregon communities of varying sizes; now, therefore,
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
There is appropriated to the Higher Education  Coordinating Commission, for
the biennium beginning July 1, 2019, out of the General Fund, the amount of $300,000, for  the
Sustainable City Year Program at the University  of Oregon for the purpose of partnering
with cities that would not otherwise have resources to participate in the program.
SECTION 2. This 2019 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the  public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is  declared to exist, and this 2019 Act takes effect
on July 1, 2019.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 789