1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Joint Resolution 22
Sponsored by Representative BOICE
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The measure asks voters to say yes or no to amending the Constitution to  create the
County Review Board, which would consider the pros and cons of legislative Acts that concern  land
use, natural resources or forestry. Each county  would have one member of the board. If 20 of 36
board members vote to cancel an Act, the Act would be null and  void. The board may not review
Acts about the budget or taxes. The measure asks voters  to say yes or no to amending the Consti-
tution at the next general election. (Flesch Readability Score: 66.0).
Proposes an amendment to the Oregon Constitution  to create the County Review Board, con-
sisting of one representative from each county in this state. Directs the board to meet  after each
session of the Legislative Assembly to review each legislative Act enacted at the session that is
related to land use, natural resources or forestry. Provides that  if 20 or more board representatives
vote in favor of  cancelling an Act, the Act is thereafter null and void. Prohibits the board from
considering an Act related to the budget or to taxes or taxation.
Refers the proposed amendment to the people for their approval or rejection at the next regular
general election.
JOINT RESOLUTION
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
PARAGRAPH 1.
 The Constitution of the State of Oregon is amended by creating new sections
16 and 16a to be added to and made a part of Article XI, such sections to read:
SECTION 16. (1) The County Review Board is established, consisting  of one represen-
tative from each county in the State of Oregon.
(2) The governing body of each county shall appoint one individual who is a  resident of
the county, to represent the county  on the County Review Board. Each representative serves
at the pleasure of the governing body  that appointed the representative. A representative
may be removed by majority vote  of the county governing body that appointed the repre-
sentative. Upon a vacancy occurring in the office of board  representative, the appointing
county governing body shall fill the vacancy by appointment within 30 days of the vacancy.
(3)(a) The County  Review Board shall convene within 15 days of the adjournment sine die
of a regular or special session of the  Legislative Assembly and shall consider the merits of
each legislative Act enacted at that legislative session  that the board determines is related
to land use, natural resources or forestry.
(b) Notwithstanding section 28, Article IV,  and section 15b, Article V of this Constitution,
and without regard to whether the Act has taken effect or not, if 20  or more board repre-
sentatives vote in favor of cancelling an Act, the Act is thereafter  null and void and cannot
be revived by the Governor or through exercise of the referendum power  described in sub-
section (3) of section 1, Article IV of this Constitution.
(c) If an Act is determined to  be null and void under paragraph (b) of this subsection,
affected parties shall be restored  to the position they would have been in had the Act never
been enacted.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 4860
HJR 22
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
(4) The County Review Board has no authority to consider the merits of any Act relating
to the budget of this state or relating to taxes or taxation.
(5) The County Review Board shall conclude its review of the  legislative Acts enacted at
a session within 60 days of convening. After concluding a review under this  section, the
board may not thereafter consider the merits of any Act  that the board had the opportunity
to consider previously under this section.
SECTION 16a. (1) County governing bodies shall make initial appointments to the County
Review Board under section 16 of this Article on or before June 1, 2027.
(2) This section is repealed on January 1, 2028.
PARAGRAPH 2.
The amendment proposed by this resolution shall be submitted to  the
people for their approval or rejection  at the next regular general election held throughout
this state.
[2]