1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2023 Regular Session
House Bill 3427
Sponsored by Representative EVANS
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Requires public university to submit any  proposed change in affiliation with athletic association,
conference or organization with authority over intercollegiate sports  to appropriate legislative
committees for review. Prohibits change in affiliation from occurring unless change is  first approved
by Legislative Assembly.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to intercollegiate sports.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) Notwithstanding ORS 352.087 or any other provision of law, if  a public
university listed in ORS 352.002 desires to change the athletic association,  conference or or-
ganization with authority over intercollegiate sports with which the  public university is af-
filiated, the public university shall make its recommendation  for the change in affiliation,
including any supporting rationale, to the appropriate legislative committees for review.
(2) A proposed change of affiliation  with an athletic association, conference or organiza-
tion with authority over intercollegiate  sports under subsection (1) of this section may not
take effect unless it has first been submitted to the  appropriate legislative committees under
subsection (1) of this section and has been approved  by the Legislative Assembly. The Leg-
islative Assembly may adopt, amend or reject the proposed change.
(3) As used  in this section, “athletic association, conference or organization with au-
thority over intercollegiate sports” has the meaning given that term in ORS 702.200.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 3649