82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2023 Regular Session
Enrolled
House Bill 3005
Sponsored by Representative REYNOLDS; Representatives ANDERSEN, BOWMAN,  DEXTER,
FAHEY, GAMBA, KROPF, LIVELY, MARSH, NERON, NGUYEN H, NOSSE, OWENS,  PHAM
H, PHAM K, RUIZ, SMITH G, SOSA, TRAN, Senator ANDERSON (Presession filed.)
CHAPTER .................................................
AN ACT
Relating to financial assistance for early child care infrastructure activities; and  declaring an
emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1. Findings. (1) Early educational investments are severely underfunded.
(2) There is a shortage of affordable and accessible child care in this state.
(3) Early learning  and care providers have limited finances to facilitate expansion of a
robust child care infrastructure.
(4) High-quality early  child care investment promotes regional economic growth by in-
creasing the number of jobs available within  the child care and construction workforce sec-
tors and by  providing consistent, accessible and reliable care that is necessary to allow
parents to participate in the labor force.
(5) Quality early learning and care facilities  that are developmentally appropriate, inclu-
sive of children with disabilities, culturally relevant and  responsive and environmentally
healthy support child brain development and the well-being of children and early learning and
child care staff.
(6) Sustained public investment  and technical assistance are necessary to overcome
constraints and incentivize the development and  expansion of early learning and care re-
sources in this state.
(7) The purpose of sections 1 to 6 of this  2023 Act is to provide financial assistance to
eligible applicants for activities  that promote increased early learning and care capacity
across the state, in an amount determined on  a case-by-case basis by the Oregon Business
Development Department.
SECTION 2.
Definitions. As used in sections 1 to 6 of this 2023 Act:
(1) “Administrative costs” includes, but is not limited to, the direct and indirect  costs
incurred by the Oregon Business Development Department for:
(a) Reviewing and processing applications for grants and  loans for financial assistance
submitted by eligible applicants under section 4 of this 2023 Act.
(b) Monitoring the use of funds by recipients.
(2) “Child care facility” has the meaning given that term in ORS 329A.250.
(3) “Early child care infrastructure  activity” means an activity that contributes to the
development of a robust child care system in this state.
(4) “Eligible applicant” means any of the following:
Enrolled House Bill 3005 (HB 3005-B) Page 1
(a) A certified or registered family child care provider.
(b) A person or nonprofit organization that operates a child care facility.
(c) A child care center certified under ORS 329A.280 by the Office of Child Care.
(d) Federally recognized Indian tribes in Oregon that  are preschool providers participat-
ing in the Preschool Promise Program established under ORS 329.172.
(e) Organizations that support the expansion or establishment of child care providers.
(f) Programs that serve children in publicly funded early learning and care  programs in-
cluding:
(A) Programs funded by the Early Childhood  Equity Fund established under ORS 417.781.
(B) Relief nurseries.
(C) Programs that  receive subsidies through the Employment Related Day Care subsidy
program under ORS 329A.500.
(D) Oregon Head Start, prekindergarten and Early Head Start programs.
(E) Programs that provide early childhood  special education or early intervention ser-
vices, as provided by ORS 343.475.
(g) Culturally specific early learning,  early childhood and parent support programs de-
scribed under ORS 417.782 (1).
(h) Any other applicants that the department deems to be  an eligible applicant as pro-
vided by department rule.
(5) “Family child care provider” has the meaning given that term in ORS 329A.430.
SECTION 3.
Child Care Infrastructure Fund.  (1)(a) The Child Care Infrastructure  Fund
is established in the State Treasury, separate and distinct from the  General Fund. Interest
earned by the Child Care Infrastructure Fund shall be credited to the fund.
(b) Moneys in the fund are  continuously appropriated to the Oregon Business Develop-
ment Department for the purposes set forth in section 4 of this 2023 Act.
(c) The Oregon Business Development Department shall administer the fund in  consul-
tation with the Department of Early Learning and Care.
(2) The fund shall consist of moneys credited to the fund, including:
(a) Moneys appropriated to the fund by the Legislative Assembly;
(b) Moneys transferred to the fund by the Oregon Business Development Department;
(c) Earnings on moneys in the fund;
(d) Moneys received from the federal or state government; and
(e) Moneys from any other source, including, but not limited to, grants and gifts.
SECTION 4.
Allowable costs.  (1) The Oregon Business Development Department shall
administer a grant and  loan program to provide financial assistance to eligible applicants for
allowable costs expended for early child  care infrastructure activities, from moneys in the
Child Care Infrastructure  Fund established under section 3 of this 2023 Act, in accordance
with this section.
(2) The department shall:
(a) Coordinate with the Department of Early Learning and Care and consult with the
Department of  Education and the Housing and Community Services Department in the de-
sign and implementation of the program.
(b) Engage with relevant stakeholders, including but not limited to nonprofit and  for-
profit entities that are directly  or indirectly involved in child care throughout the state, to
collect necessary information that may be used to  facilitate the design and implementation
of the program.
(3) For purposes of this section, allowable costs include, but are not limited to:
(a) Costs for the planning and design of early learning and care facilities.
(b) Costs for property acquisition to be used for early learning and care facilities or child
care facility development projects.
Enrolled House Bill 3005 (HB 3005-B) Page 2
(c) Repairs, improvements and renovations to early learning and care facilities, including
climate resilience modifications, energy efficiency improvements, seismic retrofitting  and
necessary repairs due to a natural disaster.
(d) Child care facility development projects, including direct project management costs.
(e) Costs of contracting with third parties,  including but not limited to nonprofit entities
and community development financial institutions, to assist  in the administration of child
care infrastructure activities.
(f) Construction costs and expenses.
(g) Costs related to child care workforce investments.
(h) Costs related to  providing support to organizations in the establishment or expansion
of child care providers and facilities.
(i) Other costs that the Oregon Business Development Department, after  consulting with
the Department of Early Learning and Care, determines to be necessary to carry  out early
child care infrastructure activities.
(4) In addition to the allowable costs under subsection (3) of this section, the  Oregon
Business Development  Department may use moneys from the Child Care Infrastructure
Fund to pay administrative costs incurred by the department.
(5) Subject to subsection (6) of this section, the amount of financial assistance provided
to eligible applicants under this section shall be in an amount  prescribed by the department
by rule, except that the department may not:
(a) Distribute funds to an eligible applicant that is a school district:
(A) In an amount that exceeds 25  percent of the amount appropriated to the Oregon
Business Development Department under section 3 of this 2023 Act.
(B) Unless the school district has demonstrated the ability to  provide matching funds in
an amount  that is equal to the amount of matching funds the school district is required to
provide under the  Oregon School Capital Improvement Matching Program under ORS
286A.801.
(b) Distribute funds  to eligible applicants that are culturally specific early learning, early
childhood and parent support programs described under ORS 417.782 (1), in an amount that
is less than 25 percent of the total amount appropriated to the department  under section 3
of this 2023 Act.
(6) The total amount of financial assistance allowable to eligible applicants under  this
section must be distributed with regard to the availability of funds. If the  funds available in
the Child Care Infrastructure Fund established under section 3 of this 2023 Act are not ad-
equate to  provide financial support to all eligible applicants that have been approved by the
department to receive financial assistance under this section,  the department may prioritize
distribution based on  an applicant’s ability or demonstrated commitment to provide any of
the following child care services to families with the greatest child care needs:
(a) Culturally and linguistically specific and appropriate early learning and care;
(b) Child care during nonstandard working hours such as evenings and weekends;
(c) Child care for infants and toddlers;
(d) Early learning and care that aligns with parent preferences; or
(e) Early learning  and care in communities that have historically experienced a lack of
accessible and affordable child care.
(7)(a) The department, in consultation with the Department of Early Learning and Care,
shall adopt rules to implement this section. At a minimum, the rules must include:
(A) An application process by  which an eligible applicant may apply for financial assist-
ance under this section;
(B) The terms and conditions for any agreements related to financial assistance provided
under this section;
(C) A process for reviewing  and approving applications submitted for financial assistance
received under this section;
Enrolled House Bill 3005 (HB 3005-B) Page 3
(D) Subject to limitations under subsections (5) and (6) of this section, the amount of  fi-
nancial assistance that may be provided to eligible applicants; and
(E) A process for establishing prioritizations upon which the Oregon Business  Develop-
ment Department may base the awarding of  grants and loans for financial assistance under
this section to eligible applicants located in rural geographic areas and among historically
underserved communities.
(b) The department shall, in consultation with the Early Learning  Council established
under ORS 326.425, adopt rules concerning applicants that the department may  deem to be
eligible applicants.
SECTION 5.
Nonprofit grants. (1) The Department of Early Learning and  Care shall es-
tablish a program to award grants to  nonprofit entities that have experience in providing
technical assistance to child care providers  for redistribution by the nonprofit organization
to eligible applicants.
(2) The allowable uses of grant moneys awarded under this section include:
(a) Paying any one or more of the allowable costs described under section 4  of this sec-
tion; and
(b) Providing subgrantees with funding resources  to promote the establishment and ex-
pansion of child  care facilities and child care capacity in rural geographic areas and among
historically underserved communities that are identified as child  care deserts according to
standards established by the department by rule.
(3) Upon being awarded a grant under this section, the nonprofit grantee shall enter into
an agreement with the department that:
(a) Indicates the purposes for which the grant funds may be used;
(b) Requires the grantee to establish a method by which subgrantees may apply  for and
receive grants from the nonprofit that is consistent with  the grant and loan application
process established by rule by the department under section 4 of this section; and
(c) Directs the  nonprofit to administer the distribution of grant funds to subgrantees
under this section.
(4) The department may adopt any rules necessary to administer this section.
SECTION 6.
Technical assistance.  (1) The Department of Early Learning and Care may
provide technical assistance to support  eligible applicants approved for financial assistance
under section 4 of this 2023 Act with implementing child care infrastructure expansion  ac-
tivities.
(2) The  department shall consult and collaborate with entities that have experience with
and are engaged in providing technical assistance to child care providers regarding  accessing
resources to promote:
(a) Child care facility and capacity expansion; and
(b) Business strategy and operations support and training.
SECTION 7.
The section captions used in this 2023 Act are provided  only for the con-
venience of the reader and do not become part of  the statutory law of this state or express
any legislative intent in the enactment of this 2023 Act.
SECTION 8. This 2023 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency  is declared to exist, and this 2023 Act takes effect
on its passage.
Enrolled House Bill 3005 (HB 3005-B) Page 4
Passed by House June 14, 2023
..................................................................................
Timothy G. Sekerak, Chief Clerk of House
..................................................................................
Dan Rayfield, Speaker of House
Passed by Senate June 23, 2023
..................................................................................
Rob Wagner, President of Senate
Received by Governor:
........................M.,........................................................., 2023
Approved:
........................M.,........................................................., 2023
..................................................................................
Tina Kotek, Governor
Filed in Office of Secretary of State:
........................M.,........................................................., 2023
..................................................................................
Secretary of State
Enrolled House Bill 3005 (HB 3005-B) Page 5