1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
79th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2017 Regular Session
Senate Joint Resolution 20
Sponsored by Senator FERRIOLI (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Proposes amendment to Oregon  Constitution to require Legislative Assembly to pass bill ap-
propriating funds for state’s system of kindergarten through grade 12  public education by 65th day
of regular session held in odd-numbered year and to prohibit compensation of  legislators if bill is
not passed.
Refers proposed amendment  to people for their approval or rejection at next regular general
election.
JOINT RESOLUTION
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
PARAGRAPH 1.  The Constitution of the State of Oregon is amended by creating a new  section
9 to be added to and made a part of Article VIII, such section to read:
SECTION 9. (1) Not later than the 65th day after the commencement  of a regular session
held in an odd-numbered year,  the Legislative Assembly shall pass a bill that appropriates
the funds for the state’s system of kindergarten through grade 12 public education for  the
biennium next following the commencement of  the regular session held in an odd-numbered
year. If the  Governor returns a bill passed under this subsection with written objections, as
provided in section 15b, Article V of this Constitution, within two weeks after  the date of the
return, the Legislative Assembly shall either reconsider and  approve the bill as provided in
section 15b, Article V of this  Constitution, or shall pass a new bill that appropriates the
funds for the state’s system of kindergarten through grade 12 public education for the
biennium next following the commencement of the regular  session held in an odd-numbered
year.
(2) If the Legislative Assembly has not passed a bill as required by subsection (1)  of this
section on or before  the 65th day after the commencement of a regular session held in an
odd-numbered year, the members of the Legislative Assembly are not entitled to any com-
pensation for the period beginning on the 66th day after commencement of the  regular ses-
sion and ending on the date a  bill described in subsection (1) of this section is passed. If the
Governor returns a bill described in subsection  (1) of this section and the Legislative As-
sembly does not either reconsider and approve the bill or pass  a new bill that appropriates
the funds within two weeks after the date of the return, the members of  the Legislative
Assembly are not entitled to any compensation for the period between the end  of the two
weeks and the date a bill described in subsection (1) of this section is passed.
(3) As used in this section, “compensation” means per diem payments and salary.
PARAGRAPH 2.
The amendment proposed by this resolution shall be submitted to the
people for their approval or rejection at the next  regular general election held throughout
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1140
SJR 20
1
2
this state.
[2]