1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 3647
Sponsored by Representative MUNOZ
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Tells gas  station owners to display the prices they charge for fuel on a sign visible from
the street and at each pump. (Flesch Readability Score: 80.4).
Requires a person  that operates a service station, business or other place for the purpose of
retailing and delivering gasoline, diesel or other fuel to display on a sign visible from the street  and
on a sign visible at or near each dispensing device the  prices charged for all grades of gasoline,
diesel or other fuel.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to price displays required for retail fuel dispensing stations; amending ORS 646.930.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 646.930 is amended to read:
646.930. (1) A person [ who] that  operates a service station, business or other place for the pur-
pose of retailing and delivering gasoline, diesel or other fuel into the tanks of motor vehicles[ :]
[(a) May ] shall display on a sign visible from the street and on a sign visible at or near each
dispensing device the [ lowest cash ] prices charged for the sale of [ the lowest ] all grades of gasoline,
diesel or other fuel.
[(b) If a sign is displayed under paragraph (a) of this  subsection, shall display on a sign visible
at or near any dispensing device all  prices charged for the sale of all grades of gasoline, diesel or other
fuel offered for sale. ]
(2) The following apply to a sign displaying prices under this section:
(a) The price per unit of measurement and  the unit of measurement for a particular kind of fuel
must be  the same on the sign as on any dispensing device used for delivering that kind of fuel into
the tanks of motor vehicles.
(b) If a [ cash] price displayed on a sign is available only under  some conditions, the sign and the
dispensing device must clearly state the conditions.
(c) If a price displayed on a sign is available only in a certain area  of the service station or
business, the area where the price displayed is available must be clearly identified.
(3) A person who displays a [ cash] price that is available only under some conditions may not
require, as a condition of buying fuel at the displayed price, that the buyer fill the fuel  tank of the
buyer’s vehicle.NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 4526