1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2023 Regular Session
Senate Bill 125
Printed pursuant to  Senate Interim Rule 213.28 by order of the President of the Senate in conformance with pre-
session filing rules,  indicating neither advocacy nor opposition on the part of the President (at the request
of Senate Interim Committee on Energy and Environment)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Directs Department of Transportation to establish grant program for fuel cell  electric vehicle
and hydrogen fueling demonstration projects. Appropriates moneys from General Fund to department
for grant program.
Requires department to study existing state statutes, regulations, rules and policies that  may
impede or hinder wide-scale adoption and use of fuel cell  electric vehicles and hydrogen fueling.
Directs department to submit findings and recommendations to  interim committees of Legislative
Assembly related to energy and economic development not later than September 15, 2024.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to hydrogen.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) As used in this section, “fuel cell electric vehicle” mean  a fully electric
vehicle that generates its  own electricity by combining oxygen from the air with hydrogen
from an onboard storage tank, emitting only water vapor and heat from the vehicle.
(2) The Department  of Transportation shall establish a program to award grants to public
and private entities for projects that demonstrate the  potential for wide-scale adoption and
use of fuel cell electric vehicles and hydrogen fueling in the state’s transportation sector.
(3)(a) A grant awarded under this section  may be used to plan and develop a project that
demonstrates, with regard to hydrogen fuel:
(A) Production;
(B) Delivery;
(C) Storage;
(D) Use of public or private fueling stations and dispensing to end-users;
(E) Utilization by a fleet of fuel cell electric  vehicles, such as at a port or warehouse or
by a public transportation system or commercial vehicles; or
(F) Utilization by individual or privately owned vehicles.
(b) The department shall give priority when awarding grants to demonstration  projects
that reflect all stages of the hydrogen fuel market from production to end use.
(4)(a) The department shall adopt rules to administer the grant program and establish:
(A) Grant application procedures and criteria for grant approval; and
(B) Procedures for revocation  of grants to recipients failing to comply with the criteria
established by the department pursuant to this section.
(b) At a minimum the rules must provide for the Director of Transportation to:
(A) Convene an advisory committee  to evaluate applications and recommend grant
awards under this section;
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1813
SB 125
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
(B) After reviewing the  recommendation from the advisory committee, approve or deny
an application for a grant and set the amount of the grant awarded to the grant recipient;
(C) Monitor grant recipients for compliance with grant criteria established by the  de-
partment pursuant to this section; and
(D) Evaluate the efficacy of completed demonstration projects.
SECTION 2.
(1) As  used in this section, “fuel cell electric vehicle” mean a fully electric
vehicle that generates its own electricity by combining oxygen from the  air with hydrogen
from an onboard storage tank, emitting only water vapor and heat from the vehicle.
(2) The Department of Transportation shall conduct a study of existing state  statutes,
regulations, rules and policies that may impede or hinder the wide-scale  adoption and use
of fuel cell electric vehicles and hydrogen fueling in this state.
(3) The study shall include, but is not limited to, the following evaluations:
(a) The use of hydrogen fuel for transportation  in this state, assuming no restrictions for
transportation through tunnels or bridges or by ferry;
(b) The process for permitting and siting hydrogen fueling infrastructure,  including hy-
drogen fueling stations;
(c) The permitting process to convert existing vehicle maintenance structures,  such as
vehicle repair shops, to be able to maintain or repair fuel cell electric vehicles;
(d) Existing length and weight restrictions for medium and heavy-duty  vehicles and me-
dium and heavy-duty fuel cell electric vehicles; and
(e) Existing statutory definitions of zero-emission vehicles, alternative  fuel vehicles and
electric vehicles, and whether existing statutory definitions cover fuel cell electric vehicles.
(4) The department shall  provide recommendations on the wide-scale adoption and use
of hydrogen fuel for transportation in this state and for changes  to existing state statutes,
regulations, rule and  policies that may enable or support the use of fuel cell electric vehicles
and hydrogen fueling.
(5) The department shall provide  the findings and recommendations of the study in a
report that may include recommendations for legislation, in the manner  provided in ORS
192.245, to the interim committees  of the Legislative Assembly related to energy and eco-
nomic development no later than September 15, 2024.
SECTION 3.
Section 2 of this 2023 Act is repealed on January 2, 2025.
SECTION 4. In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there is appropri-
ated to the Department of Transportation, for  the biennium beginning July 1, 2023, out of the
General Fund,  the amount of $25,000,000, for the fuel cell electric vehicle and hydrogen fuel-
ing demonstration projects grant program established  pursuant to section 1 of this 2023 Act.
[2]