1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 3250
Sponsored by Representative RESCHKE
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act says that persons who invest PERS moneys may not consider factors that do
not relate to financial risk or return. (Flesch Readability Score: 61.4).
Prohibits the Oregon Investment Council,  the State Treasurer and managers from considering
nonfinancial factors when directing or managing the investment of the Public  Employees Retirement
Fund.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to consideration of nonfinancial factors in managing state investments.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) As used in this section:
(a) “Fiduciary” means  the Oregon Investment Council, the State Treasurer in the State
Treasurer’s role as  investment officer for the council and any managers engaged by the
council or the State Treasurer for the active management of investments.
(b) “Nonfinancial factor” means a factor that has not been prudently  determined by a
fiduciary to have a material  effect on the financial risk or the financial return of an invest-
ment.
(c) “Policy commitment” means any evidence of a fiduciary’s purpose in managing assets
as a fiduciary, including, without limitation:
(A) Advertising, statements, explanations, reports, letters to clients,  communications
with portfolio companies, statements of principles or commitments; and
(B) Participation in, affiliation with or status as a  signatory to any coalition, initiative,
joint statement of principles or agreement.
(2) A fiduciary may not  consider nonfinancial factors when directing or managing in-
vestments of moneys in the Public Employees Retirement Fund referred to in ORS 238.660.
(3) A fiduciary is  rebuttably presumed to have considered a nonfinancial factor if the
fiduciary has made, after the effective date of this 2025  Act, a policy commitment to further
any social, political or ideological interest  through company engagement, board or share-
holder votes or otherwise.
(4) The requirements of this section are in addition to  and not in lieu of the provisions
of ORS 293.721 and 293.726.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2231