1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2798
Sponsored by Representative NELSON; Senator MANNING JR (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Makes a hospital or hospital system in  this state make public its expenses from the prior
year. Allows the OHA to impose penalties for failure to comply with the law.  (Flesch Readability
Score: 61.8).
Requires a hospital licensed or  hospital system operating in this state to make publicly available
its expenses from the preceding year.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to health care.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
Section 2 of this 2025 Act is added to and made a part of ORS chapter 442.
SECTION 2. (1) As used in this section, “hospital system” means:
(a) A parent corporation of  one or more hospitals and any entity affiliated with the par-
ent corporation through ownership, governance, control or membership; or
(b) A hospital and any entity affiliated with the hospital through ownership, governance,
control or membership.
(2) A hospital licensed in this state or a hospital system operating in  this state shall
make publicly available on  the hospital’s or hospital system’s website, and update annually,
the hospital’s or hospital system’s expenses  for the preceding year, including salary and
benefit information for each classification of employee and for individual executives.
(3) If a hospital or hospital system does not have a  website, the information described in
subsection (2) of this section must be made available in hard copy form in each  reception
area of the hospital or hospital system.
(4) A hospital or hospital system may use the format of the Internal  Revenue Service
Form 990 to provide information described in subsection (2) of this section.
(5) The Oregon Health Authority shall  adopt rules necessary to carry out the provisions
of this section, including but not limited to:
(a) Prescribing definitions for the  classifications of employees and other terms used in
subsection (2) of this section; and
(b) Civil penalties that may be imposed in accordance with ORS 183.745 for a hospital’s
or a hospital system’s failure to comply with the requirements of this section.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1850