83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Enrolled
House Bill 2130
Introduced and printed pursuant to House Rule 12.00. Presession filed (at the request of House In-
terim Committee on Commerce and Consumer  Protection for Oregon Insurance Guaranty Asso-
ciation)
CHAPTER .................................................
AN ACT
Relating to the Oregon Insurance Guaranty Association; creating new  provisions; and amending
ORS 734.510, 734.540, 734.570, 734.580, 734.640 and 734.695.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1. Section 2 of this 2025 Act is added to and made a part  of ORS 734.510 to
734.710.
SECTION 2. (1) Notwithstanding any other provision of ORS 734.510  to 734.710, if an
insurer assumes sole responsibility for an insurance policy  that a member insurer issued and
the insurer that assumes responsibility for the insurance policy  is subject to liquidation, the
Oregon Insurance Guaranty Association is subject under ORS 734.510 to  734.710 to a claim
that arises from the insurance policy even if:
(a) The insurer that is subject to liquidation assumed sole responsibility for the insurance
policy under an allocation, transfer, assumption or other  operation in accordance with a law
of this state that provides for dividing an insurer or allocating, transferring or  assuming
designated insurance policies; and
(b) A court order or novation released the  member insurer from any obligation under the
insurance policy.
(2) The association is not subject  under ORS 734.510 to 734.710 to a claim that arises from
an insurance policy if an insurer that was not a member  insurer issued the insurance policy
and a member insurer later assumed  sole responsibility for the insurance policy under a
novation or an allocation, transfer  or assumption in accordance with a law of this state that
provides for dividing an insurer or allocating, transferring or assuming designated insurance
policies.
SECTION 3.  ORS 734.510 is amended to read:
734.510. As used in ORS 734.510 to 734.710, unless the context requires otherwise:
(1) “Association” means the Oregon Insurance Guaranty Association created by ORS 734.550.
(2) “Board” means the board of directors of the association.
(3) “Controlled insurer” means an insurer  70 percent or more of whose stock is owned by a
corporation, or by two or more corporations that are under common ownership.
(4)(a) “Covered claim” means an unpaid claim, including a claim for unearned premiums and  a
claim by the Workers’ Benefit Fund for payments made [ pursuant to ] under ORS chapter 656,  that
arises out of and is within the coverage and limits of an  insurance policy to which ORS 734.510 to
734.710 apply and which is in force at the time  of the occurrence giving rise to the unpaid claim,
Enrolled House Bill 2130 (HB 2130-INTRO) Page 1
made by a person insured under [ such] the  policy or by a person suffering injury or damage for
which a person insured under [ such] the  policy is legally liable, if:
(A) The insurer issuing the policy becomes an insolvent insurer after September 9, 1971; and
(B) The claimant or insured is a resident of this state at the time of the occurrence giving rise
to the unpaid claim, or the  property for which  the claim arises is permanently located in this state.
(b) “Covered claim” does not include:
(A) Any amount in excess of the applicable limits of liability provided by an insurance policy
to which ORS 734.510 to 734.710 apply;
(B) Any amount due any reinsurer, insurer, insurance pool or underwriting association as
subrogated recoveries or otherwise;
(C) Any amount due to a state or to  the federal government, except for a claim by the
Workers’ Benefit Fund under this section;
[(C)] (D)  [ Except for  claims arising out of workers’ compensation policies subject to ORS chapter
656,] A claim filed with the association after  the final date set by the court for the filing of claims
against the liquidator or  receiver of an insolvent insurer , except for a claim that arises out of
a workers’ compensation policy that is subject to ORS chapter 656 ; or
[(D)] (E)  Any first party claim  by an insured whose net worth exceeds $25 million on December
31 of the year next preceding  the date the insurer becomes an insolvent insurer, provided that an
insured’s net worth on such date is deemed to include the aggregate net worth of the insured  and
all of [ its] the insured’s  subsidiaries as calculated on a consolidated basis.
(5) “Cybersecurity insurance” means  direct insurance that is not otherwise excluded
under ORS 734.540 from the application of ORS 734.510 to 734.710 and that:
(a) Involves first-party and third-party coverage in a policy or endorsement;
(b) Is written on a direct, admitted basis; and
(c) Covers losses and loss mitigation that arise out of or are related to:
(A) A breach of security, as defined in ORS 646A.602;
(B) An unauthorized intrusion into a network or security system;
(C) Identity theft;
(D) The presence, and the effects or results, of a computer virus or ransomware;
(E) Cyber extortion; or
(F) Risks and exposures that  are similar or related to the risks or exposures described
in subparagraphs (A) to (E) of this paragraph.
[(5)] (6) “Dividend” means any payment made to the  stockholders of a controlled insurer, which
payment is directly related to ownership of the stock.
(7) “Incident or occurrence” means:
(a) One proximate, uninterrupted or continuing cause  that results in an injury or dam-
age, even if:
(A) The damage or injury consists of  separable components or affects different items;
and
(B) More than one claim or claimant results from the cause.
(b) A single cause or condition, exposure to  which over a period of years results in con-
tinuous, indivisible injury or damage.
[(6)] (8) “Insolvent insurer” means a member insurer:
(a) Authorized to transact insurance in this state either at the time the policy was  issued or at
the time of the occurrence giving rise to the unpaid claim;
(b) Against which a final order of liquidation, with a finding of insolvency, has  been entered by
a court of competent jurisdiction in the insurer’s domicile after September 9, 1971; and
(c) With respect to which no  order, judgment or finding relating to the insolvency of the insurer,
whether preliminary or temporary in nature or otherwise, has been  issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction  or  by any insurance commissioner, insurance department or similar official or body prior
to September 9, 1971, or which was in fact insolvent prior to  September 9, 1971, and such de facto
Enrolled House Bill 2130 (HB 2130-INTRO) Page 2
insolvency was or should have been known by the chief insurance regulatory official of [ its] the
insurer’s domicile.
[(7)] (9)  “Member insurer” means an insurer, including a reciprocal insurer, authorized to
transact insurance in this state that writes any  kind of insurance to which ORS 734.510 to 734.710
apply.
[(8)] (10)(a)  “Net direct written premiums” means  direct gross premiums written in this state
on insurance policies to which ORS 734.510 to 734.710 apply,  less return premiums thereon and
dividends paid or credited to policyholders on such direct business.
(b) “Net direct written premiums” does not include premiums on contracts between insurers  or
reinsurers.
(11) “Novation” means a transaction in which one insurer’s or entity’s existing  policy
obligation, or  a claim, becomes the direct obligation of another insurer or entity with the
policyholder’s express consent,  or consent implied from the circumstances, from the notice
provided to the policyholder  or from the conduct of the parties, at which point the
policyholder releases the insurer or entity from the existing policy obligation or claim.
[(9)] (12)  “Plan” means the plan of  operation of the association established pursuant to ORS
734.590.
SECTION 4.  ORS 734.540 is amended to read:
734.540. ORS 734.510 to 734.710 apply to all kinds  of direct insurance except life, health, title,
surety, credit, mortgage  guaranty, home protection insurance, wet marine and transportation insur-
ance , [ and] insurance against  the risk of economic loss assumed under a less than fully insured
employee health benefit plan , whether issued or delivered  as health or casualty insurance , and any
insurance that a state or the federal government provides or guarantees .
SECTION 5.  ORS 734.570 is amended to read:
734.570. The Oregon Insurance Guaranty Association [ shall]:
[(1) Be obligated to  pay covered claims existing at the time of determination of insolvency of an
insurer or arising within  30 days after the determination of insolvency. Except for covered claims
arising out of workers’ compensation policies,  such obligation shall include only that amount of each
covered claim that is less than $300,000.  The association shall pay the full amount of any covered claim
arising out of a workers’ compensation policy, less  any amount paid on a covered claim by the
Workers’ Benefit Fund pursuant to ORS chapter 656. In no event  shall the association be obligated in
an amount in excess of the obligation of the  insolvent insurer under the policy from which the claim
arises, or for claims arising after the policy expiration, policy replacement by the  insured or policy
cancellation caused by the insured. ]
[(2) Be the insurer to the extent of the association’s obligation on the covered claims and to  such
extent have all the rights, duties and obligations of the insolvent  insurer as if the insurer had not be-
come insolvent. ]
(1) Shall pay covered claims that exist at the time, or that arise within 30 days after,  a
member insurer has been determined to be insolvent, subject to the following limits  and ex-
ceptions:
(a) The association’s obligation to pay a covered claim  that arises from the insolvency
of a member insurer between September 9, 1971, and December  31, 2024, is only the amount
of the covered claim that is less than $300,000.
(b) The association’s obligation to pay a covered claim  that arises from the insolvency
of a member insurer on or after January 1, 2025, may not exceed $600,000.
(c) Notwithstanding the  limitations set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this subsection,
the association shall pay the full amount of any covered claim that  arises out of a workers’
compensation policy, less any amount the Workers’ Benefit Fund pays on the covered claim
under ORS chapter 656.
(d) The association is not obligated to pay:
(A) Any amount that exceeds the obligation of the  insolvent member insurer under the
policy from which the claim arises;
Enrolled House Bill 2130 (HB 2130-INTRO) Page 3
(B) A claim that arises  after the policy expires or after the insured cancels or replaces
the policy; or
(C) More than $600,000 in the aggregate for any claim,  including any first-party or
third-party claim, that arises out of or is related to  a single incident or occurrence that is
covered under a cybersecurity  insurance policy or endorsement, regardless of the number
of claims made or the number of claimants.
(2) Is  the insurer to the extent of the association’s obligations on covered claims, with
all of the rights, duties and obligations the insolvent member insurer  would have had if the
insolvent member insurer had not become insolvent.
(3) Shall assess member insurers the amounts necessary  to pay the expenses [ incurred by ] the
association  incurs  in meeting [ its] the association’s  obligations and exercising  [ its] the
association’s duties and powers under ORS 734.510 to 734.710. The assessments of each  member
insurer [ shall] must  be in the proportion that the net  direct written premiums of the member
insurer for the preceding  calendar year bears to the net direct written premiums of all member
insurers for the preceding calendar  year, but [ shall in no event ] may not  exceed in any one year two
percent of the  member insurer’s net direct written premiums for the preceding calendar year. Each
member insurer [ shall] must  be notified of an assessment not later than the 30th day  before the day
[it] the assessment  is due. If the funds of the association  do not provide in any one year an amount
sufficient to pay the obligations and expenses of the association, the  funds available [ shall] must
be prorated among  the obligations and expenses, and the unpaid portions [ shall] must  be paid as
soon thereafter as funds  become available. If an assessment would cause a member insurer’s finan-
cial statement to reflect  amounts of capital or surplus less than the minimum amounts required for
a certificate of authority by any jurisdiction in which the member insurer is authorized to  transact
insurance, the association may exempt from or defer payment of the assessment,  in whole or in part,
by the member insurer. However, if the member insurer is a controlled insurer, the association, in
making determinations regarding the exemption or deferral of assessments, shall treat all  dividends
paid during the three calendar years  immediately preceding the year in which the assessment is
made as assets of the insurer just as if such dividends had not  been paid. Each member insurer
designated as a servicing facility may set off  against any assessment authorized payments made on
covered claims and expenses  the member insurer  incurred in [ the payment of such ] paying covered
claims [ by the member insurer in its ] in the member insurer’s  capacity as a servicing facility.
(4) Shall investigate claims brought against the association and adjust,  compromise,  defend,
settle and pay covered claims to the extent of the association’s obligation[ , and].
(5) Shall  review settlements, releases and judgments to which the insolvent  member  insurer
or [ its] the insolvent member insurer’s  insureds were parties to  determine the extent to which
such settlements, releases and judgments may be properly  contested. The association’s obligation
to defend an insolvent member  insurer’s insured ceases when the association tenders or pays
an amount that  is equal to the lesser of the statutory limit that applies to the covered claim
or the policy limit that applies to the covered claim.
[(5)] (6) Shall reimburse servicing facilities and employees of the association for obligations and
expenses the servicing facilities and employees  incurred  and paid in the handling of claims on
behalf of the association[ , and].
(7) Shall pay all other expenses the association incurs in carrying out ORS 734.510 to 734.710.
SECTION 6.
 ORS 734.580 is amended to read:
734.580. The Oregon Insurance Guaranty Association may:
(1) [ With the approval of  the Director of the Department of Consumer and Business Services, ]
Employ or retain [ such] persons or designate [ such] servicing facilities  [ as] that  are necessary to
handle claims and perform the other duties  of the association , subject to the approval of the Di-
rector of the Department of Consumer and Business Services . Servicing facilities  so designated
may be foreign corporations or associations.
(2) Borrow funds necessary to  carry out ORS 734.510 to 734.710, in such manner as may be
specified in the plan.
Enrolled House Bill 2130 (HB 2130-INTRO) Page 4
(3) Sue or be sued.
(4) Negotiate and become a party to [ such] contracts [ as] that  are necessary to carry out ORS
734.510 to 734.710.
(5) Refund to member insurers,  at the end of any calendar year, [ refund to member insurers, ]
in proportion to [ an] each member  insurer’s payments to the association,  that amount by which the
board of  directors [ find] finds that the funds of the association exceed [ its] the association’s  cur-
rent claims and expenses plus the liabilities estimated for the coming year.
(6) Pay any claim made under a cybersecurity insurance  policy, at the association’s sole
discretion and without assuming any duty to pay, if  the claim is covered by a cybersecurity
insurance policy of an insolvent insured on behalf of an insured with the  net worth described
in ORS 734.695 (2)(a). In all cases in which the association pays under  this subsection a claim
made on behalf of an insured with the net worth described in ORS  734.695 (2)(a), the associ-
ation may recover the amount paid as provided under ORS 734.695.
[(6)] (7)  Perform [ such] any  other acts [ as] that  are  necessary or proper to carry out ORS
734.510 to 734.710.
SECTION 7.
 ORS 734.640 is amended to read:
734.640. [(1) Any person who has  a claim under an insurance policy against an insurer other than
an insolvent insurer which would also be a covered claim against an  insolvent insurer must first ex-
haust the remedies under such policy. ]
(1)(a) A person need not exhaust  any right available under an insolvent member insurer’s
policy, but if the person has a claim under an insurance  policy that arises from the same
facts, injury or loss from  which a covered claim against the association arises, whether or
not the  insolvent member insurer issued the policy, the person must first exhaust all cov-
erage under the policy, including the right to a defense, before the association  must pay the
covered claim. The association’s payment obligation must be reduced by  the full applicable
limits set forth in the other  insurance policy and the association must receive a full credit
for the limits. If the policy does not set forth  applicable limits, the claim against the asso-
ciation must be reduced by the amount of the total recovery.
(b) A claim under this subsection includes any amount that  is payable by or on behalf
of a self-insured claimant.
(c) A claim arises from the same facts, injury or loss  from which a covered claim against
the association arises if the person that makes a claim under a policy of liability insurance
is jointly and severally liable, or is a joint tortfeasor, with a  person that is covered under the
policy of an insolvent member insurer under which the covered claim arises.
(d) Before making a claim against the association, a person  that has a claim in which the
injury or loss is alleged to result from exposure to, or the release of, asbestos or any envi-
ronmental pollutant or contaminant must first exhaust all coverage available to the person
under any and all other insurance policies that cover the claim  during all periods in which
the other  insurance policies are available to the person, even if an insolvent member insurer
provided the only coverage for the claim when the exposure or release allegedly occurred.
(2) Any person [ who] that has a claim that may also be  recovered from one or more insurance
guaranty agencies  that perform functions similar to that of the Oregon Insurance Guaranty Associ-
ation shall first seek recovery from whichever organization  serves the place of residence of the in-
sured, except that:
(a) Recovery on  first party claims for damage to property with a permanent location [ shall]
must first be sought from whichever organization serves the location of the property; and
(b) Recovery on workers’ compensation claims [ shall] must  first be  sought from whichever or-
ganization serves the residence of the claimant.
(3) Any recovery under ORS 734.510 to 734.710 from the  association [ shall] must  be reduced by
the amount of any recovery [ pursuant to subsections (1) and (2) of ] under this section.
SECTION 8.
 ORS 734.695 is amended to read:
Enrolled House Bill 2130 (HB 2130-INTRO) Page 5
734.695. (1) The insured of an insolvent insurer [ may not be ] is not  personally liable for amounts
due any reinsurer, insurer, insurance pool or underwriting association as subrogation recoveries or
otherwise up to the applicable limits of liability provided by the insurance policy issued by  the in-
solvent insurer.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1) of this  section, and except for claims arising
out of workers’ compensation policies subject to ORS chapter 656, the  Oregon Insurance Guaranty
Association may recover from the following persons the amount of any covered  claim , including
defense fees,  paid on behalf of such person under ORS 734.510 to 734.710:
(a) Any insured whose net worth exceeds $25 million  on December 31 of the year next preceding
the date the insurer becomes  an insolvent insurer and whose liability obligations to other persons
are satisfied in whole or in part by payments made under ORS 734.510 to 734.710; and
(b) Any person who is an affiliate of the insolvent  insurer and whose liability obligations to
other persons are satisfied in whole or in part by payments made under ORS 734.510 to 734.710.
(3) Notwithstanding subsection (1) of this section, the association  may recover from an
insured with the net worth described in subsection (2)(a) of this section:
(a) All payments the association made  to or on behalf of the insured for a claim under
a cybersecurity insurance policy, whether the payment was for indemnity, defense or an-
other purpose; and
(b) The association’s legal  fees and court costs in any action the association brings to
recover the payments.
Passed by House March 11, 2025
..................................................................................
Timothy G. Sekerak, Chief Clerk of House
..................................................................................
Julie Fahey, Speaker of House
Passed by Senate April 29, 2025
..................................................................................
Rob Wagner, President of Senate
Received by Governor:
........................M.,........................................................., 2025
Approved:
........................M.,........................................................., 2025
..................................................................................
Tina Kotek, Governor
Filed in Office of Secretary of State:
........................M.,........................................................., 2025
..................................................................................
Tobias Read, Secretary of State
Enrolled House Bill 2130 (HB 2130-INTRO) Page 6