1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
80th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2019 Regular Session
Senate Bill 655
Sponsored by Senator BOQUIST
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Requires State Department of  Fish and Wildlife to annually report to Access and Habitat Board
regarding programs and projects  funded from Access and Habitat Board Subaccount of Fish and
Wildlife Account.
Requires Access and  Habitat Board to annually report to State Fish and Wildlife Commission
regarding alignment of access and habitat program and project operation with original board  rec-
ommendations to commission.
Prohibits person from receiving moneys from subaccount if  person charges fee for access to land
anywhere within this state.
Prohibits person from receiving program or project grant  moneys from subaccount to cover any
period that program or project site is closed to public. Requires that  department’s biennial report
to Legislative  Assembly identify person prohibited from receipt of moneys and identify period site
was closed to public.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to the use of Access and Habitat Board Subaccount moneys.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
The State Department of Fish and Wildlife shall annually  report to the Ac-
cess and Habitat Board  regarding the grant and contract expenditures during the most re-
cently completed fiscal  year from the Access and Habitat Board Subaccount of the Fish and
Wildlife Account. The report must, at a minimum, include a comparison  of the projects and
programs that received grant moneys and a description of  the board recommendations re-
garding the grants  and contracts, department actions and the status of department con-
tracts and department payments to grantees.
SECTION 2. The Access and Habitat Board shall annually report to the State Fish and
Wildlife Commission. The report must, at a minimum, verify  that the board has reviewed
each grant expenditure of $25,000 or more from  the Access and Habitat Board Subaccount
of the Fish and Wildlife Account during the most recently completed  fiscal year to ensure
that grant applications, board  recommendations, commission approvals of programs and
projects and State Department of Fish and Wildlife contract implementation are meeting  the
expectations and intent of the original  program recommendations made by the board to the
commission.
SECTION 3. (1) If a person charges a fee for access to land anywhere within this  state,
the person may not receive moneys for a program or project from the Access and Habitat
Board Subaccount of the Fish and Wildlife Account.
(2) If a program or project site is closed to the public, a person may not receive  grant
moneys for a program or project from the subaccount to cover any period that  the site is
closed to the public.
(3) When issuing a  report under ORS 496.232 (3), the State Department of Fish and
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2389
SB 655
1
2
3
4
Wildlife shall include the identity of any person prohibited  under subsection (2) of this sec-
tion from  receiving subaccount grant moneys and identify the period for which the program
or project site was closed to the public.
[2]