1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2694
Sponsored by Representative PHAM H; Representatives ANDERSEN, FRAGALA,  GAMBA, GOMBERG, HUDSON,
NATHANSON, NELSON,  NERON, NOSSE, WALTERS, Senators CAMPOS, PATTERSON, PHAM K (Preses-
sion filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act would require the ERB to  set up a system where people can register as union
representatives. The Act does not allow anyone to act as a union representative unless  they are
registered in the system. The Act sets fines for breaking the law. (Flesch Readability Score: 61.8).
Requires the Employment Relations Board to establish and maintain a registry system  for per-
sons to register as union representatives. Prohibits a person from acting as  a union representative
unless the person is  registered and enrolled in the registry system. Establishes a civil penalty for
each violation.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to a registry for union representatives.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
Section 2 of this  2025 Act is added to and made a part of ORS 243.650 to
243.809.
SECTION 2. (1) As used in this section:
(a) “Designated union representative” means a public  employee who is a member of a
labor organization and who serves as a representative of fellow employees in a bargaining
unit.
(b) “Fraudulent activity” includes false impersonation of a union representative.
(c) “Union representative” means:
(A) An exclusive representative.
(B) A designated union representative.
(2) The Employment Relations Board shall  establish a registry system to protect public
employees who are members of a labor organization from fraudulent activity. The  board may
contract with another agency or third party to  maintain and operate the registry for the
board.
(3) The registry system must, at a minimum:
(a) Provide a process for persons to register as  union representatives for a labor organ-
ization that is an exclusive representative of the employees of a public employer;
(b) Be designed to maintain an official record  that includes the names of each person
registered as a union representative; and
(c) Be accessible to public  employees and exclusive representatives to allow public em-
ployees and exclusive representatives to obtain relevant  information sufficient to verify
whether a person is registered as a union representative.
(4)(a) The board by rule shall establish a process  for persons to enroll in the registry
system as union representatives.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1971
HB 2694
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
(b) A person may not act as a union  representative or otherwise hold oneself out to a
public employee as a union representative unless  the person is registered in the registry
system established under this section.
(5) A person that violates this section is subject to a civil penalty in  an amount not to
exceed
 for  each separate instance of a violation of this section. The board shall de-
posit moneys received as  civil penalties under this subsection to the credit of the Employ-
ment Relations Board Administrative Account.
[2]