1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2024 Regular Session
House Bill 4021
Introduced and  printed pursuant to House Rule 12.00. Presession filed (at the request of House Interim Committee
on Rules for Representative Julie Fahey)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act requires the Governor  to appoint a U.S. Senator when a vacancy happens in
the office. The Act states when the appointment ends. (Flesch Readability Score: 67.7).
Requires the Governor to appoint a United States Senator when a  vacancy in the office occurs.
Requires that the appointed Senator be of the same political party as the  elected Senator who va-
cated the office.
Requires the appointment to end when the term of office ends or when a replacement is elected,
whichever comes first.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to vacancies in the United States Senate; amending ORS 188.120.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 188.120 is amended to read:
188.120. (1) If a vacancy in election or office of Representative in Congress or United States
Senator occurs  before the 61st day before the general election, the Governor shall call a special
election to fill that vacancy. If a vacancy  in election or office of United States Senator occurs after
the 62nd day before the general election but on or before the general election,  and if the term of
that office is not regularly filled at that  election, the Governor shall call a special election to fill
the vacancy as soon as practicable after the general election.
(2) If a special election to fill the vacancy in election or office of Representative in Congress
or United States Senator is called before the 80th day after  the vacancy occurs, each major political
party shall select its nominee  for the office and certify the name of the nominee to the Secretary
of State. The Secretary of State shall place the name of the nominee on the ballot.
(3) If a special election to fill the vacancy in election or office of Representative in Congress
or United States Senator is called after the 79th day after the  vacancy occurs, a special primary
election shall be conducted by the Secretary of State for the purpose of nominating  a candidate of
each major political party. A declaration of candidacy or nominating petition  may be filed not later
than the 10th day following the issuance of the writ of election.
(4)(a) For a vacancy in  election or office of United States Senator, the Governor shall fill
the vacancy by appointment. The Governor  shall make the appointment required under this
subsection no later than 30 days after the vacancy occurs.
(b) A person appointed under this subsection must:
(A) Be a citizen qualified to hold the office; and
(B) For at least 180 days before the date on which the vacancy occurred, be affiliated with
the same political party as the person who vacated the office of United States Senator.
(c) The political affiliation of a person appointed under this subsection shall  be deter-
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 251
HB 4021
1
2
3
4
mined in accordance with ORS 236.100.
(d) An  appointment made under this subsection shall expire when the term of office ends
or a successor to the office is elected and qualified under this section, whichever occurs first.
[2]