1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 3159
Sponsored by Representative CATE (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Limits the amount by which a public utility may increase a rate or schedule of rates  in
a year. (Flesch Readability Score: 67.3).
Limits the maximum percentage by which a public  utility may increase a rate or schedule of
rates in a calendar year to the average percentage change of the Consumer Price Index.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to public utility rates.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
Section 2 of this 2025 Act is added to and made a part of ORS chapter 757.
SECTION 2. (1) The Public Utility Commission may not approve for a public utility  an
increase of a rate or schedule of rates that is:
(a) Greater than  the maximum percentage increase allowed for the calendar year under
subsection (2) of this section; or
(b) When added to any increases of a rate or schedule of rates that  the commission
previously approved for the calendar year, greater  than the maximum percentage increase
allowed for the calendar year under subsection (2) of this section.
(2) The maximum percentage that a public utility may increase  a public utility’s rate or
schedule of  rates for a calendar year is the September annual 12-month average change in
the Consumer Price Index  for All Urban Consumers, West Region (All Items), as most re-
cently published by the Bureau of  Labor Statistics of the United States Department of Labor.
(3) No later than September 30 of each year, the commission shall publish the  maximum
percentage increase allowed for the following calendar year under subsection (2) of  this sec-
tion.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2169