1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
80th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2019 Regular Session
House Bill 2979
Sponsored by Representative MCKEOWN, Senator ROBLAN, Representatives GOMBERG, SMITH  DB; Represen-
tatives MITCHELL, WITT, Senator HEARD
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced.
Appropriates moneys to Oregon Department  of Administrative Services for distribution to As-
sociation of Oregon  Counties to contract for provision of technical assistance and information to
landowners for complying with  certain requirements related to replacement or repair of tide gates
with opening size of four feet or smaller.
Declares emergency, effective July 1, 2019.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to tide gates; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there is appropri-
ated to the Oregon Department of  Administrative Services, for the biennium beginning July
1, 2019, out of the General Fund, the amount of  $250,000 for distribution to the Association
of Oregon Counties, for use by the association to contract with  an independent third-party
organization that will provide technical assistance and information  to landowners to assist
the landowners in complying with local, state  and federal regulatory and other requirements
that relate to planning, designing,  monitoring and engaging in the replacement or repair of
tide gates with an opening size of four feet or smaller.
SECTION 2. This 2019 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the  public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is  declared to exist, and this 2019 Act takes effect
July 1, 2019.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1971