1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2024 Regular Session
Senate Concurrent Resolution 207
Sponsored by Senator WAGNER, Representative RUIZ, Senator GORSEK; Senator JAMA, Representative  HUDSON
(Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Honors the life and memory of William Lyle Sperb. (Flesch Readability Score: 66.1).
Recognizes and honors Corpsman William Lyle Sperb (1948-1969) for his service to his country.
CONCURRENT RESOLUTION
Whereas United States Navy Hospital Corpsman William Lyle Sperb was born in  Oregon City,
Oregon, on August 22, 1948, to Lyle and Inez Sperb; and
Whereas Corpsman Sperb was  raised in Gresham and attended East Orient Elementary School
and Gresham High School; and
Whereas Corpsman Sperb served as Gresham High School student body vice president, played
baseball on the Gresham High School varsity  baseball team and served as president of the Gresham
chapter of the Oregon Future Farmers of America; and
Whereas Corpsman  Sperb enlisted in the United States Navy in October 1966 and proudly served
his country in the Vietnam War, where he attained the rank of Petty  Officer Second Class/Hospital
Corpsman Second Class; and
Whereas Corpsman Sperb began his tour of duty on December 24, 1967; and
Whereas Corpsman Sperb was  attached to 3rd Marine Amphibious Force, 1st Marine Aircraft
Wing, Marine Aircraft Group 16, Marine Air Base Squadron 16; and
Whereas Corpsman Sperb was in the last month of his  first extension in Vietnam when he per-
ished in a  helicopter crash, along with three others, while on a medevac mission in Quang Nam
Province, South Vietnam, on April 14, 1969; and
Whereas Corpsman Sperb had flown a record-breaking 803 medevac missions during his  time in
Vietnam, and announced plans to fly 1,000 missions total; and
Whereas Corpsman Sperb  was awarded numerous medals and commendations for his wartime
service, including the Purple Heart, the Air Medal, the National Defense Service Medal, the
Vietnam Service Medal and the Vietnam Campaign Medal; and
Whereas Corpsman Sperb carried on a proud Sperb tradition of military service that began with
his father, Lyle Sperb, a  United States Navy Aviation Machinist’s Mate Third Class, Petty Officer
Third Class, who served in World War II and the Korean War,  and continued with Corpsman Sperb
and his brothers, United States Air Force Sergeant Stephen Sperb and United  States Marine Corps
Sergeant Calvin Sperb, who both also served in Vietnam; and
Whereas Corpsman Sperb was laid to rest  at Willamette National Cemetery in Portland, Oregon;
and
Whereas Corpsman Sperb was survived by his  parents, Lyle and Inez; his sister, Dorothy; his
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 12
SCR 207
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
three brothers, Stephen, Calvin and Anthony; and his grandparents, Louis Sperb and Mr. and Mrs.
Glenn Makin; and
Whereas Corpsman  Sperb’s selfless devotion to duty exemplified the spirit and values of the
United States Navy; now, therefore,
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
That we, the members of the Eighty-second Legislative Assembly,  celebrate the life of United
States Navy Hospital Corpsman William Lyle Sperb, and we recognize and honor his dedication to
serving his community, his state and his country.
[2]