1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 3252
Sponsored by Representatives JAVADI, LEVY B, DIEHL, Senator WEBER; Representatives  ELMER, GOMBERG,
MANNIX, MCINTIRE, SCHARF, Senator NASH
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act makes new laws for how administrative rules apply  to farmworker labor hous-
ing. The Act takes effect when the Governor signs it. (Flesch Readability Score: 66.4).
Limits the applicability of certain administrative rules relating to the siting, permitting or  lo-
cation of agricultural labor housing in connection with a livestock operation.
Prohibits the Director of the Department of Consumer  and Business Services from retroactively
enforcing the rules with respect to certain agricultural housing unless there exists an immediate
hazard to the health and safety of agricultural workers occupying the housing.
Prohibits the director from adopting  rules that require the relocation, modification or demolition
of certain agricultural labor housing to comply with  certain rules adopted on or after the effective
date of this Act.
Declares an emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to administrative rules regarding agricultural labor housing; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
Section 2 of this 2025 Act is added to and made a part of ORS chapter 654.
SECTION 2. (1) As used in this section:
(a) “Agricultural labor housing” includes any temporary or permanent  living quarters or
dwelling provided by agricultural employers for use by workers who perform agricultural la-
bor on a seasonal or year-round basis.
(b)(A) “Livestock operation” includes:
(i) Dairy farms, corrals, slaughterhouses, feedlots or stockyards.
(ii) Places, establishments or facilities with pens  or other enclosures in which livestock
is kept for  purposes that include, but are not limited to, feeding, milking, slaughtering, wa-
tering, weighing, sorting, receiving and shipping.
(B) “Livestock operation” does not include operations where  livestock can roam on a
pasture over a distance.
(2) Rules adopted under the Oregon Safe Employment Act relating  to the siting or the
location proximity of any agricultural labor housing in connection with  a livestock operation,
regardless of whether the agricultural  workers perform work for the livestock operation,
including rules that establish a  minimum distance between agricultural labor housing and a
livestock operation, may be enforced retroactively whenever  the Director of the Department
of Consumer and  Business Services has reason to believe there exists an immediate hazard
to the health or safety of the agricultural workers who occupy the housing.
(3) The Director of the Department of Consumer and Business  Services may not adopt
or enact any rule that  requires an agricultural employer to relocate, modify or demolish any
agricultural labor housing described in subsection (2) of  this section to comply with any rule
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2393
HB 3252
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
establishing a minimum distance between agricultural labor housing and a livestock opera-
tion adopted on or after the effective date of this 2025 Act.
SECTION 3.
 (1) Section 2 of this  2025 Act applies to rules adopted under the Oregon Safe
Employment Act  establishing minimum distances between agricultural labor housing and a
livestock operation, including rules prohibiting agricultural workers from occupying  housing
located within a minimum distance from a livestock operation, that  are in effect beginning
on January 1, 2026.
(2) Section 2 of this 2025 Act does not apply to agricultural labor housing:
(a)(A) That was built or sited or for  which a building permit was issued, on or prior to
January 1, 2026; and
(B) That was in compliance with health, safety and  habitability standards for agricultural
labor housing that were adopted under the Oregon Safe Employment Act and  in effect before
January 1, 2026; or
(b) For which a building permit was issued on or prior  to January 1, 2026, but con-
struction has not yet been completed.
SECTION 4.
This 2025 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the  public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is  declared to exist, and this 2025 Act takes effect
on its passage.
[2]