1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 861
Printed pursuant to  Senate Interim Rule 213.28 by order of the President of the Senate in conformance with pre-
session filing rules,  indicating neither advocacy nor opposition on the part of the President (at the request
of Governor Tina Kotek for State Fire Marshal)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act makes changes related to funding for fighting fires. (Flesch  Readability Score:
69.7).
Makes certain changes related to the State Fire Marshal Mobilization Fund.
Instructs the Department of the State Fire Marshal to report on certain amounts and  expen-
ditures on or before March 31 of each odd-numbered year.
Declares an emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to firefighting costs; creating new provisions; amending ORS 476.565; and declaring an
emergency.
Whereas the Legislative Assembly finds that, as a matter of statewide concern, it is  in the best
interest of the people of this state  to adequately fund emergency fire protection services, including
emergency mobilization and pre-positioning activities; and
Whereas the Legislative Assembly intends to appropriate  moneys to the Department of the State
Fire Marshal in an amount  equal to the amount requested in the department’s agency request
budget; now, therefore,
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 476.565 is amended to read:
476.565. (1)(a) The  State Fire Marshal Mobilization Fund is established in the State Treasury,
separate and distinct from the General Fund.
(b) The  State Fire Marshal Mobilization Fund consists of moneys appropriated by the Legislative
Assembly for deposit in the fund, grant  funds received by the Department of the State Fire Marshal
from the Federal  Emergency Management Agency, and other moneys appropriated, allocated, de-
posited or transferred to the fund  by the Legislative Assembly or otherwise , including other grant
funds, reimbursements and moneys received from judgments and settlements .
(c) Moneys in the fund are continuously appropriated to the department for eligible  mobilization
costs incurred by the department and reimbursements pursuant to ORS 476.560.
(2) As used in this section, “eligible mobilization  costs” means expenses incurred for emergency
mobilization and pre-positioning activities in Oregon.
SECTION 2. On or before March 31 of each odd-numbered year, the Department  of the
State Fire Marshal shall report to the Joint Committee on Ways  and Means, or to the in-
terim Joint Committee on Ways and Means, on:
(1) The amounts appropriated,  allocated, deposited or transferred to the State Fire Mar-
shal Mobilization Fund, from  any source, on or after July 1 of the previous odd-numbered
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 492
SB 861
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
year; and
(2) Actual and anticipated expenditures from the fund on  or after July 1 of the previous
odd-numbered year.
SECTION 3.
This 2025 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist,  and this 2025 Act takes effect
on its passage.
[2]