1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2310
Sponsored by Representative MANNIX (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act tells DAs to make a victims’ rights form and  give it to victims. (Flesch Read-
ability Score: 95.4).
Requires district attorney offices to develop a victims’ rights form and to provide the  form to
all victims upon initiation of a prosecution.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to the rights of crime victims; amending ORS 147.417.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 147.417 is amended to read:
147.417. (1) As soon as is reasonably  practicable in a criminal action in which there is a victim,
a law enforcement agency shall notify a person who reasonably  appears to be a victim of the offense
of the person’s rights under section 42, Article I of the Oregon Constitution. The notice may be  oral
or written and written  notice may be provided electronically. If exercise of any of the rights depends
upon the victim making a request, the law enforcement agency  shall include in the notice the time
period in which  the victim is required to make the request. A law enforcement agency satisfies the
requirements of this [ section] subsection if the law enforcement agency:
(a) Provides notice to the victim named in  the accusatory instrument, the victim’s guardian or,
in a homicide case, the victim’s next of kin; and
(b) Presents, if written notice is given, the notice directly to the victim, sends  the notice to the
last address given to the law enforcement agency by the victim or  sends the notice electronically
to the cellular phone number or electronic mail address given to the law enforcement agency  by the
victim.
(2)(a) All  district attorney offices shall develop a form containing information concerning
all rights of a victim under the Oregon Constitution and  statutory law. The form may be
developed in cooperation with other district attorney offices and must be translated into and
made available in at least Spanish and Russian.
(b) Upon initiating a prosecution, the district attorney shall provide each victim  with a
copy of  the form described in paragraph (a) of this subsection. The form must be provided
to a victim notwithstanding the fact that  notification occurred pursuant to subsection (1)
of this section.
[(2)] (3) Failure by a law enforcement agency to properly notify  the victim as required by sub-
section (1) of  this section , or the failure of a district  attorney to provide to the victim the
form described in subsection (2) of this section :
(a) Is not grounds for setting aside a conviction.
(b) Does not affect the validity of a plea, except as provided by section 42 or 43, Article I of  the
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2724
HB 2310
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
Oregon Constitution.
[(3)] (4) Nothing in subsection [ (2)] (3) of this section justifies a failure to properly notify the
victim.
[(4)(a)] (5) As used in this section,  “law enforcement agency” means the police agency that ini-
tially responds in  the case, the police agency that investigates the case or the district attorney who
prosecutes the case.
[(b) The district attorney shall determine if the notice required by this section has been  given and,
if not, shall provide the notice. ]
[2]