1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2023 Regular Session
Senate Bill 962
Sponsored by Senator SMITH DB
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Directs Oregon Department of  Emergency Management to develop and implement grant program
to distribute moneys to certain counties to fund emergency preparedness coordinators.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to county emergency management.
Whereas it is critical for communities to prepare for  disasters and other emergencies, including
a Cascadia Subduction Zone earthquake and tsunami; and
Whereas statewide emergency preparedness is dependent on local preparedness; now, therefore,
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Oregon Department of Emergency Management shall, by rule, de-
velop and implement a grant program to distribute moneys to eligible counties to  fund
emergency preparedness coordinators at the county level.
(2) A county is eligible for a grant under the program if:
(a) The emergency management agency of the county  is funded by federal moneys dis-
tributed through  the Emergency Management Performance Grant administered by the Fed-
eral Emergency Management Agency; and
(b) No city within the county has established an emergency management agency.
(3) The department shall prescribe the process for eligible counties to apply  for a grant
under this section, including  application timelines and the form and contents of an applica-
tion.
(4) The department shall award grants to selected applicants in an amount sufficient  to
fund a county emergency preparedness coordinator for one biennium. In selecting  counties
to be awarded grants under  this section, the department shall seek to maximize the overall
emergency preparedness of  this state, with consideration given to geographic differences in
types and severity of potential emergencies.
SECTION 2.
In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there is appropri-
ated to the Oregon Department of  Emergency Management, for the biennium beginning July
1, 2023, out of the General Fund, the amount of $_____ to carry out the purposes  of section
1 of this 2023 Act.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1508