1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
80th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2019 Regular Session
House Bill 2815
Sponsored by Representatives KENY-GUYER, GOMBERG, Senator MANNING  JR; Representatives HERNANDEZ,
NOBLE, SCHOUTEN, Senators DEMBROW, GELSER
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced.
Directs Department of Corrections to enter into  written agreement with nonprofit organization
to jointly establish prison-based animal program to provide inmates with opportunity  to develop pet
care vocational skills.
Requires department to adopt rules that are necessary to carry out program.
Requires department  to submit report to interim committees of Legislative Assembly concerning
program, including recommendations for  measuring outcomes of program and recommendations for
legislation, no later than September 15, 2021.
Appropriates moneys from General Fund to department to establish program.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to prison-based animal programs.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1)(a) The Department of Corrections shall enter into  a written agreement
with a nonprofit organization that provides animal rescue services to jointly establish  a
prison-based animal program. The program shall be designed  to reduce recidivism rates in
this state by providing  inmates in correctional facilities an opportunity to develop pet care
vocational skills that may be used to find employment when  an inmate is released from the
correctional facility.
(b) The vocational skills taught under the program must include instruction on how  to
provide obedience training, socialization, grooming and other  appropriate care for dogs be-
fore a nonprofit organization offers the dog for adoption.
(2) The department shall adopt rules that  are necessary to carry out the provisions of
this section, including rules that establish:
(a) Requirements that an inmate must meet to be eligible to participate in the program;
(b) Minimum criteria that a nonprofit organization must meet  before the department
may enter into an agreement with the nonprofit organization as described in  subsection (1)
of this section; and
(c) Standards for gathering measurable data to evaluate the outcomes of the program.
(3) The department shall  submit a report concerning the prison-based animal program
established pursuant to section  (1) of this section, including recommendations for measuring
the outcomes of the program  as they relate to the recidivism rates in this state, and any
other recommendations for legislation, to the interim  committees of the Legislative Assem-
bly related to the judiciary no later than September 15, 2021.
SECTION 2.
In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there is appropri-
ated to the Department of Corrections, for the biennium beginning July 1, 2019, out of the
General Fund, the amount of $_______, which may be expended  to establish the prison-based
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 3167
HB 2815
1
2
animal program described in section 1 of this 2019 Act.
[2]