1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
80th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2019 Regular Session
House Bill 2746
Sponsored by Representative BARRETO, Senator HANSELL; Representatives  BOSHART DAVIS, FINDLEY, LEIF,
LEWIS, NEARMAN, NOBLE, SMITH DB, SPRENGER, STARK, WILSON
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced.
Requires State  Department of Fish and Wildlife to biennially report to Legislative Assembly
regarding estimated change in wolf population. Requires Legislative Assembly  to identify amount
of state funding necessary to provide counties with assistance  sufficient for carrying out essential
features of county programs regarding wolf depredation and financial  assistance. Requires Legisla-
tive Assembly to review estimate of change in wolf population  prior to making appropriation to fund
used for wolf depredation and financial assistance  grant program. Requires that Legislative Assem-
bly establish, to extent practicable,  fund appropriation amount greater than identified necessary
funding amount and reflecting estimated change in wolf population. Requires that Legislative As-
sembly, to extent practicable, direct that minimum  percentage of appropriation be expended for fi-
nancial assistance to persons who implement livestock management techniques or  nonlethal wolf
deterrence techniques designed to discourage wolf depredation of livestock.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to wolves; creating new provisions; and amending ORS 610.155.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
Section 2 of this 2019 Act is added to and made a part of the wildlife laws.
SECTION 2. Each biennium the State Department of Fish and Wildlife shall prepare a
report that estimates the net change in wolf population during the preceding two-year period.
The department shall submit the report to the Legislative  Assembly as provided under ORS
192.245 and post the report on the department’s website for public access.
SECTION 3.
 ORS 610.155 is amended to read:
610.155. (1) The Wolf Management Compensation and Proactive  Trust Fund is established sepa-
rate and distinct from the General Fund. Interest earned on the moneys in the Wolf Management
Compensation and Proactive Trust Fund shall be credited  to the fund. All moneys in the fund are
continuously  appropriated  to the State Department of Agriculture for the purpose of establishing
and implementing the wolf depredation compensation  and financial assistance grant program de-
scribed in ORS 610.150.
(2) The fund shall consist  of moneys appropriated by the Legislative Assembly for the purposes
of the fund and any gifts, grants,  donations, endowments or bequests from any public or private
source. The State Department of Agriculture may seek out and receive any gifts, grants, donations,
endowments or bequests for the purpose of establishing and  implementing the wolf depredation
compensation and financial assistance grant program described in ORS 610.150. The department
shall deposit such moneys into the fund.
(3) The Legislative Assembly shall identify the amount  of state funding necessary to
provide counties with assistance sufficient  for counties to carry out the essential features
of county programs described in ORS 610.150.
(4) Prior to making any appropriation for a biennium to the fund, the  Legislative As-
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2278
HB 2746
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
sembly shall review the estimated change in wolf population contained in the  State Depart-
ment of  Fish and Wildlife biennial report filed under section 2 of this 2019 Act. The
Legislative Assembly shall, to the extent the Legislative Assembly deems practicable:
(a) Establish the  appropriation in an amount that is greater than the amount identified
by the Legislative Assembly under subsection (3) of this section and that, relative to  the
amount appropriated to the fund for the preceding  biennium, fully reflects the estimated
change in wolf population; and
(b) Direct that a minimum of 30 percent of the appropriation be expended  for financial
assistance to persons who implement livestock management techniques or nonlethal  wolf
deterrence techniques designed to discourage wolf depredation of livestock.
[2]