1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2300
Sponsored by Representative MANNIX, Senator SOLLMAN (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act says that a plaintiff may not sue a person who talks about certain  bad behavior
if the  person has a reasonable belief that it happened. The Act says that the plaintiff has to pay the
person’s lawyer fees and sanctions. (Flesch Readability Score: 66.6).
Provides that a person  may not bring a civil action against an individual who, without malice,
makes a communication regarding an incident  of sexual assault, sexual harassment or sex discrimi-
nation if, at the time of making the communication, the individual has a  reasonable belief that sex-
ual assault, sexual harassment or sex  discrimination occurred. Allows the prevailing defendant to
recover attorney fees and provides for imposition of remedial sanctions against the plaintiff.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to retaliatory actions for communications.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) A person may not bring a civil action against an individual who,  without
malice, makes a communication regarding an incident of sexual  assault, sexual harassment
or sex discrimination if, at the time of making the communication, the individual has a rea-
sonable belief that sexual assault, sexual harassment or  sex discrimination occurred,
whether or not the individual filed an official complaint.
(2) A prevailing defendant in an action brought  in violation of subsection (1) of this sec-
tion is entitled to recover reasonable attorney fees.
(3) A nonprevailing plaintiff in an action brought in violation of subsection (1) of  this
section is subject to imposition of remedial sanctions under ORS  33.055, including but not
limited to payment to the  prevailing defendant of a sum of money sufficient to compensate
the prevailing defendant for loss, injury and costs suffered by the prevailing defendant as  a
result of the action.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 639