1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 1016
Sponsored by Senator SOLLMAN, Representative SCHARF
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act prohibits  DHS from using trash bags to carry the personal items of a foster
child. (Flesch Readability Score: 65.1).
Prohibits the Department of Human Services from using trash bags  to transport the personal
belongings of a foster child.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to transportation  of the personal belongings of foster children; amending section 1, chapter
210, Oregon Laws 2023.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 Section 1, chapter 210, Oregon Laws 2023, is amended to read:
Sec. 1.  (1) (a) The Department of Human Services shall procure, distribute and maintain an in-
ventory  of  appropriate luggage carriers for child welfare case workers to use when transporting the
personal effects of  a foster child, including when the foster child is entering into or transitioning
or exiting from foster care.
(b) The department  may not use trash bags to transport a foster child’s personal effects.
(2) The department shall submit a report in the manner provided by  ORS 192.245, and may in-
clude recommendations for legislation, to  the interim committees of the Legislative Assembly related
to human services no later than September 15 of each year. The report must describe :
(a) The department’s supply of appropriate luggage carriers for the transportation of a
foster child’s personal effects;
(b) The department’s luggage carrier supply inventory management practices; and
(c) If in the  preceding reporting period trash bags were used to transport a foster child’s
personal effects, the number of  instances in the preceding reporting period that trash bags were
used to transport a foster child’s personal effects[ ,] and the reasons for using the  trash bags[ , the
department’s supply of appropriate luggage carriers and its supply inventory management practices ].
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 3924