1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
80th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2019 Regular Session
House Bill 2247
Introduced and  printed pursuant to House Rule 12.00. Presession filed (at the request of House Interim Committee
on Early Childhood and Family Supports)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced.
Directs Early Learning Division to develop, implement and administer Oregon Imagination  Li-
brary Project to improve reading proficiency and high school graduation rates by providing  enrolled
children with age-appropriate book once each month.
Establishes Oregon Imagination  Library Account within Early Learning Division Fund for pur-
poses of funding project.
Declares emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to encouragement of reading in young children; and declaring an emergency.
Whereas Oregon ranks third worst in the country in high school graduation rates; and
Whereas learning to read by third grade is a key indicator for future high  school completion,
but less than half of Oregon’s third grade students meet proficiency benchmarks in reading; and
Whereas at kindergarten entry, 37 percent of Oregon  children are unable to recognize a single
letter and an even higher percentage cannot recognize a single letter sound; and
Whereas parents have the greatest impact on the lives of their children; and
Whereas according to the American Academy  of Pediatrics, the single most important activity
an adult can engage in to prepare a child for a life of learning is to read frequently with  the child,
preferably every day; and
Whereas there is a direct correlation between  the number of books in the home and future ac-
ademic success; and
Whereas mailing books each month to preschool children has been shown to dramatically  in-
crease the percentage of families reading to their  children and the frequency of parents reading to
children;  and
Whereas sending age-appropriate books to  preschool children is the broadest and most cost-
effective way to elevate early literacy benchmarks; and
Whereas preschool children enrolled in a program that sends a book to them each month score
higher on kindergarten readiness assessments; now, therefore,
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Oregon Imagination  Library Project is established for the purpose
of improving third-grade reading proficiency  and high school graduation rates by providing
free books to young children in this state.
(2)(a) The Early  Learning Division shall develop, implement and administer the project.
The division shall ensure that, under the project, every enrolled child has the  opportunity
to receive an age-appropriate book each month.
(b) A child is eligible to be enrolled if  the child is at least four years of age and has not
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2857
HB 2247
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
started kindergarten.
(c) Notwithstanding paragraph  (b) of this subsection, the division may determine that
children younger than four years of age may be eligible to be  enrolled if resources are
available to enroll younger children.
(3) For  the purpose of administering the project, the division may enter into a contract
with:
(a) A national book gifting foundation that works  in collaboration with local nonprofit
organizations and government agencies to provide free books to children from  birth until the
children begin school.
(b) One or more school districts, nonprofit organizations  or other entities that are ex-
empt from taxation under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code to collaborate  with
the division to:
(A) Provide outreach to local communities about the project;
(B) Recruit volunteers to assist in the  implementation and administration of the project;
(C) Solicit donations, gifts and other funding to financially support the project;
(D) Develop a process for enrolling children in the project; or
(E) Enroll children in the project.
(4) The division may require that any nonprofit organization or other  entity that is ex-
empt from taxation under section 501(c)(3) of the  Internal Revenue Code and that enters into
a contract with the division provide a matching  amount of at least 50 percent of the funds
required to carry out the project as described in the contract.
(5) The division may create an advisory committee to advise the division and make rec-
ommendations on how best to develop, implement and administer the project.
(6) The Early Learning Council, in  consultation with the division, may adopt rules to
implement the provisions of this section.
SECTION 2.
(1) The Oregon Imagination Library Account is established within  the Early
Learning Division Fund. Separate records shall be maintained for moneys in  the account.
Interest earned by the account shall be credited to the account.
(2) Moneys in the account are continuously appropriated to the Early Learning Division
for the Oregon Imagination Library Project described in section 1 of this 2019 Act.
SECTION 3. This 2019 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist,  and this 2019 Act takes effect
on its passage.
[2]