1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
80th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2020 Regular Session
Senate Bill 1562
Sponsored by Senator HANSELL,  Representative BARRETO, Senator DEMBROW; Senators BAERTSCHIGER JR,
FINDLEY, FREDERICK, GIROD, HEARD, KNOPP, LINTHICUM,  TAYLOR, THATCHER, Representatives
CLEM, HERNANDEZ, KENY-GUYER (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Creates program for gathering and reviewing data  and research regarding ground water in
Umatilla Basin and creating implementation plan to improve ground water quality and obtain full
or partial removal of  ground water management area designation from Lower Umatilla Basin
Groundwater Management Area. Requires that program include department recommendation of
scientifically based rationale for removing  designation in specific areas of Lower Umatilla Basin
Groundwater Management Area if practicable. Requires that program include appointment of,  and
support for, task force. Sunsets program January 2, 2030. Appropriates moneys  to State Department
of Agriculture for biennium ending June 30, 2021, to carry out program activities.
Declares emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to the Umatilla Basin; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The State Department  of Agriculture shall implement and administer a
program:
(a) To gather and review existing data and research relevant to  ground water nitrates
and ground water connectivity in the Umatilla Basin;
(b) To recommend, to the extent practicable, a scientifically based  rationale for removing
the ground water management  area designation under ORS 468B.180 in specific parts of the
Lower Umatilla Basin Groundwater Management Area; and
(c) To create  a long-term implementation plan for all areas of the Lower Umatilla Basin
Groundwater Management Area to improve ground water conditions to  an extent that will
allow removal of the ground water management area designation  from all or part of the
Lower Umatilla Basin Groundwater Management Area.
(2) The department program shall include, but need not be limited to:
(a) Providing for facilitation.
(b) Supporting greater  coordination and leadership between state agencies involved in
collecting and  corroborating data related to ground water nitrates and ground water
connectivity in the Umatilla Basin.
(c) Appointing an interagency task force consisting of:
(A) Not more than two members representing the department;
(B) Not more than two members representing the Department of Environmental Quality;
(C) Two members  of the Lower Umatilla Basin Groundwater Management Area Com-
mittee selected by the committee; and
(D) Three members at large,  one of whom must be an agricultural producer who irrigates
and applies nutrients to croplands in the Lower Umatilla Basin Groundwater Management
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 124
SB 1562
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
Area.
(d) Supporting the work of  the task force appointed under paragraph (c) of this sub-
section, including but not limited to:
(A) Facilitating task force meetings;
(B) Facilitating the completion of task force efforts to:
(i) Analyze and apply collected data regarding  ground water nitrates and ground water
connectivity in the Umatilla Basin; and
(ii) Compartmentalize the  Lower Umatilla Basin Groundwater Management Area into
hydraulically connected regions; and
(C) Assisting  the task force in developing guidance for establishing localized objectives,
milestones, timelines and other components of a strategy to  improve ground water condi-
tions to an extent that the ground water management area designation can  be removed from
all or part of the Lower Umatilla Basin Groundwater Management Area.
SECTION 2.
Section 1 of this 2020 Act is repealed on January 2, 2030.
SECTION 3.  In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there  is appropri-
ated to the State Department of Agriculture, for the  biennium ending June 30, 2021, out of
the General Fund, the amount of $250,000,  which may be expended for carrying out the pro-
gram described in section 1 of this 2020 Act.
SECTION 4. This 2020 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the  public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is  declared to exist, and this 2020 Act takes effect
on its passage.
[2]