1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 1132
Sponsored by Senator GIROD
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Tells one state agency to give moneys it gets from taxes on insurers to another  state
agency to help fight wild fires. (Flesch Readability Score: 61.4).
Requires the Director of the Department of Consumer and Business Services to transfer  the
proceeds of certain taxes, fees, fines, penalties and other monetary obligations the director  imposes
upon out-of-state insurers and insurance producers to  the State Forestry Department for deposit into
the State Forestry Department Account. Requires the State Forester to use the proceeds  to fund
wildfire prevention and suppression.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to the disposition of the proceeds of impositions made upon foreign insurers.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
Section 2 of this 2025 Act is added to and made a  part of ORS 731.844 to
731.992.
SECTION 2. (1) Notwithstanding any  other disposition of the proceeds of taxes, fees,
fines, penalties or  other monetary obligations that the Director of the Department of Con-
sumer and Business  Services must make under the Insurance Code, the director shall
transfer to the State Forestry Department, for deposit into the State  Forestry Department
Account established under ORS  526.060, all moneys that are the proceeds from any tax, li-
cense, fee, fine, penalty or  other monetary obligation that the director imposes under ORS
731.854.
(2) Moneys that Director of the Department of Consumer and Business Services transfers
under subsection (1) of this  section are continuously appropriated to the State Forestry De-
partment in addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, assessment, federal  ap-
portionment or contribution and any other moneys available to  the State Forester or the
State Board of Forestry in the State Forestry Department Account.
(3) Notwithstanding any other purposes for which  moneys in the State Forestry Depart-
ment Account may be used, the State Forester shall  use the moneys described in subsection
(1) of this section to fund programs or efforts that the State Forestry Department imple-
ments to prevent or suppress wildfires.
(4) The Legislative Assembly may not transfer the moneys described in subsection  (1) of
this section out of the State Forestry Department Account and a disposition  of the moneys
may not be made in a manner or for a purpose other than as set forth in this section.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 4329