1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 3180
Sponsored by Representatives  SOSA, NERON, PHAM H; Senator WEBER (at the request of Washington County)
(Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act gives funds to OJD for a planning project  for the Washington County court-
house. (Flesch Readability Score: 73.1).
Appropriates moneys to the Judicial Department for the Washington County  Courthouse Re-
placement Planning Project.
Declares an emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to the Washington County Courthouse Replacement Planning  Project; and declaring an
emergency.
Whereas Washington County’s courthouse facilities do not have sufficient space for the  number
of judges and staff needed  to meet community needs and act in a timely manner to address the
growing number of cases filed with the court; and
Whereas Washington County’s courthouse facilities lack  adequate trauma-informed spaces for
victims of crime; and
Whereas Washington  County’s courthouse facilities can be difficult to access for persons with
disabilities; and
Whereas Washington County’s aging courthouse facilities  pose increasing maintenance and
safety concerns for courthouse staff and the public; and
Whereas Washington County has set aside $1,250,000 in local matching funds,  but cannot begin
the project until they receive state matching funds; now, therefore,
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there  is appropri-
ated to the Judicial Department, for the biennium beginning July 1, 2025, out of the General
Fund, the amount of $1,250,000, which may be expended for the Washington County  Court-
house Replacement Planning Project.
SECTION 2.
This 2025 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist,  and this 2025 Act takes effect
on its passage.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2163