1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 3520
Sponsored by Representatives SMITH G, LEVY E, Senator NASH; Representative LIVELY
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Makes a person that wants to build a building or structure near an  interstate pipeline
to give notice. (Flesch Readability Score: 66.3).
Requires a person that proposes to construct a building or structure located  within 1,000 feet
of an interstate pipeline to notify the Oregon Utility Notification Center.
Prohibits a state agency or municipality  from issuing a building permit for a building or struc-
ture unless the agency or municipality receives a copy of the notice and a  copy of a reply from the
owner or operator of the interstate pipeline.
Requires an owner or operator of an  interstate pipeline each year to provide contact informa-
tion to the Oregon Utility Notification Center.
Takes effect on the 91st day following adjournment sine die.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to notification requirements for structures located  within 1,000 feet of an interstate pipe-
line; and prescribing an effective date.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
Section 2 of this  2025 Act is added to and made a part of ORS 455.410 to
455.450.
SECTION 2. (1) As used in this section:
(a) “Interstate pipeline” means a pipeline that:
(A) Is actually carrying or is capable of carrying liquid or gaseous substances; and
(B) Originates  within this state and extends outside the boundaries of this state, or
originates from outside of and crosses one or more of the boundaries of this state.
(b) “National Pipeline Mapping System”  means the publicly accessible online map viewer
for the electronic mapping system that the  United States Department of Transportation’s
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration  operates and maintains for the
purpose of locating pipelines and utility systems, or a similar system that a successor agency
operates and maintains.
(2)(a) A person that intends to construct a building or structure that is or  will be located
within 1,000 feet of the center line of an  interstate pipeline shall notify the Oregon Utility
Notification Center at the time the person applies for a building permit for the  building or
structure or 180 days before beginning construction, whichever is earlier. The person  shall
send a copy of the notice to the state agency or municipality  from which the person expects
to obtain a building permit for the building or structure. In the notice,  the person shall de-
scribe the extent and location of the construction,  list the equipment and supplies the person
will use in the construction and identify any  locations within 1,000 feet of the center line of
the interstate pipeline in which the person  will use, park or store the equipment or supplies.
(b) To determine whether a notice  is required under paragraph (a) of this subsection, a
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 4016
HB 3520
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
person shall  consult the National Pipeline Mapping System before applying for a building
permit to construct a building or structure within this state.
(3)(a) Not later than 30 calendar days after an owner  or operator of an interstate pipeline
receives through the Oregon  Utility Notification Center a notice described in subsection (2)
of this section, the owner or operator  of an interstate pipeline shall send a written reply to
the person that sent the notice to indicate that the owner or operator received the  person’s
notice and shall review details of the proposed construction.  The owner or operator may not
unreasonably delay or withhold the reply.
(b) In the review described in  paragraph (a) of this subsection, the owner or operator
may inspect the  person’s plans and designs and the proposed site of the construction. To the
extent reasonably necessary for the review, the  person shall cooperate with and make the
plans, designs and site available to the owner or operator during regular business hours.
(4) A state agency  or municipality may not issue a building permit for a building or
structure if, after consulting the National Pipeline Mapping  System, the state agency or
municipality determines that the building or structure is or  will be located within 1,000 feet
of the center line of an interstate pipeline, unless and until the  state agency or municipality
receives:
(a) A copy of the notice described in subsection (2) of this section; and
(b) A copy of the reply described in subsection (3)(a) of this section or  a statement in
writing that the owner or operator of the interstate pipeline did not reply to the notice  de-
scribed in subsection (2) of this section.
(5) An owner or operator  of an interstate pipeline each year shall provide to the Oregon
Utility Notification Center contact information  sufficient to provide the owner or operator
with the notice described in subsection (2) of this section.
SECTION 3.
Section 2 of this 2025 Act applies to the construction of a building or struc-
ture for which a person seeks a building permit  on or after the effective date of this 2025
Act.
SECTION 4. This 2025 Act takes effect on the 91st day after the date on  which the 2025
regular session of the Eighty-third Legislative Assembly adjourns sine die.
[2]