1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2765
Sponsored by Representative EVANS (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: This Act tells DEQ to create a grant program to prevent  fuel spills. (Flesch Readability
Score:  96.0).
Directs the Department of Environmental Quality to develop and maintain a  grant program to
prevent spills at fuel facilities.
Establishes the Fuel Spills Mitigation Fund.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to a grant program to prevent fuel spills.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) As used in this section:
(a) “Eligible applicant” means:
(A) An airport, as defined in ORS 836.005;
(B) A port, as defined in ORS 777.005;
(C) A transportation facility where fuels are stored; or
(D) Other priority facilities  where there is a high risk of fuel spills, as determined by the
Environmental Quality Commission by rule.
(b) “Fuel” includes gasoline, crude oil,  fuel oil, diesel oil or similar petroleum products
used for transportation or heating.
(c) “Fuel facility” means a pipeline or any structure, group of structures,  equipment or
device that is used for producing, storing, handling, transferring, processing or  transporting
fuel.
(d) “Hardening” includes repairing, replacing or upgrading the  structural components of
a fuel facility or carrying  out other activities for the purpose of making fuel facilities more
resilient to man-made or natural disasters or otherwise preventing fuel spills.
(2) The Department of Environmental Quality shall develop and administer a  Fuel Spills
Mitigation program to provide grants to eligible applicants for hardening fuel facilities.
(3) Eligible applicants shall submit grant applications to the department in the  form and
manner prescribed by the department. The department shall rank applications  based on the
criteria established under subsection (4) of this section and award  grants based on rankings
and available funds. If the department denies a grant application,  the department shall pro-
vide the reason for the denial to the eligible applicant in writing.
(4)(a) The commission shall establish by rule criteria for ranking grant applications under
the grant program. Criteria shall include, but need not be limited to:
(A) The level of need for  the requested hardening activities, as demonstrated by the eli-
gible applicant;
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2451
HB 2765
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
(B) The risk that fuel spills from the eligible  applicant’s fuel facilities would pose to hu-
man health and the environment; and
(C) Whether the applicant has an alternative means of funding the hardening activities.
(b) The commission shall adopt rules to implement the  grant program. Rules adopted
under this paragraph shall include, but need not be limited to:
(A) The identification of priority facilities where there is a high risk of fuel spills;
(B) Policies and procedures for the grant application process;
(C) Terms and conditions of grant agreements entered into by  the department and grant
recipients; and
(D) Procedures for verifying that grant funds have been used for the purposes for  which
they were awarded.
SECTION 2.
The Fuel Spills Mitigation Fund is established  in the State Treasury, sepa-
rate and distinct from the  General Fund. Interest earned by the Fuel Spills Mitigation Fund
shall be credited  to the fund. Moneys in the fund are continuously appropriated to the De-
partment of Environmental Quality for the  purpose of carrying out section 1 of this 2025 Act.
[2]