1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2407
Sponsored by Representative LEVY B (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act says that if an agency approves a plan for a capital  project, the agency can’t
change parts of the plan that it already approved. (Flesch Readability Score: 60.0).
Prohibits regulatory agencies from enforcing rules or  regulations relating to issues that were
considered or addressed as part of a prior approval or permit for  certain capital construction
projects.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to capital construction.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) Notwithstanding any other law, if a public body carrying out a qualified
project takes material action in reliance on an approval, permit or  other form of consent
obtained from a regulatory  agency, the regulatory agency may not enforce a rule or regu-
lation against the public body in relation to any issue that was considered or addressed  as
part of the approval, permit or consent.
(2) As used in this section:
(a) “Capital construction” has the meaning given that term in ORS 310.140 (1)(d)(B).
(b) “Material action” means the expenditure or irrevocable commitment of at least  $___
toward a qualified project.
(c) “Public body” has the meaning given that term in ORS 174.109.
(d) “Regulatory agency” means a state agency  from which an entity carrying out a cap-
ital construction project must obtain a permit, approval or other form of  consent for such
project.
(e) “Qualified project” means a project for capital construction that is  funded in whole
or in part by moneys contributed by the State of Oregon.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1545