1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2023 Regular Session
Senate Bill 653
Sponsored by Senator KNOPP; Senator GIROD (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Appropriates $50 million  to State Forestry Department to fund increased forest thinning oper-
ations in specified wildfire-prone counties. Directs  department to allocate $5 million to fund forest
thinning operations on public lands located in each wildfire-prone county. Requires department  to
confer with county governing body of each county to determine which specific forest thinning  op-
erations to fund.
Declares emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to funding for forest thinning; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there is appropri-
ated to the State Forestry Department, for the biennium beginning  July 1, 2023, out of the
General Fund, the amount of $50 million, which may be expended for the  purpose of making
the distributions to wildfire-prone counties to conduct forest thinning operations, as de-
scribed in section 2 of this 2023 Act.
SECTION 2.
(1) Moneys appropriated to the State  Forestry Department under section 1
of this 2023 Act shall be used to conduct forest  thinning operations in Clackamas, Deschutes,
Douglas, Jackson, Josephine, Klamath, Lane, Lincoln, Linn and Marion Counties.
(2) From the appropriation described in subsection (1) of this section, the  department
shall allocate $5 million to each  county listed in subsection (1) of this section to fund activ-
ities described in this subsection. The department shall confer with the county  governing
body for each county to determine specific  forest thinning operations to be conducted, so
that:
(a) Forest thinning operations on state lands located in  a county may be used to directly
fund department operations to conduct forest thinning; and
(b) The remaining balance of moneys may be used to fund county governing  body efforts
to increase forest thinning operations on public lands within that county.
SECTION 3. This 2023 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist,  and this 2023 Act takes effect
on its passage.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 886