1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 3126
Sponsored by Representative OWENS; Representative MCINTIRE (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act tells the TSPC to create a  pilot program to license some types of teachers.
(Flesch Readability Score: 79.8).
Directs the Teacher Standards and Practices Commission to establish  by rule a five-year pilot
program to license teachers other than career and technical education teachers in this state in a
manner similar to the career and technical education teaching license program.
Sunsets on January 2, 2031.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to licensure of teachers providing classroom  instruction in subjects other than career and
technical education.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
The Teacher Standards and  Practices Commission shall by rule establish a
five-year pilot program to license teachers other than career and technical education teach-
ers in this state  in a manner similar to the career and technical education teaching license
program adopted by rule by the commission.
(2) The rules must:
(a) Allow for a school district, in partnership with a Regional  Educator Network estab-
lished by the Educator Advancement Council, to convene  an instructor appraisal committee.
(b) Target teacher candidates seeking to provide  classroom instruction on subjects other
than career and technical education, including but not limited to, math, science  and social
studies.
(c) Require teacher candidates to receive mentorship through the local Regional Educa-
tor Network.
SECTION 2.
Section 1 of this 2025 Act is repealed January 2, 2031.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1612