1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2024 Regular Session
House Bill 4163
Introduced and  printed pursuant to House Rule 12.00. Presession filed (at the request of House Interim Committee
on Higher Education for Representative John Lively)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act requires HECC to create a grant program for college access  and success. The
Act sets the criteria for a grant to be given. (Flesch Readability Score: 79.0).
Requires the  Higher Education Coordinating Commission to establish a grant program for the
purpose of  supporting organizations to expand the scope and community reach of college access and
success programs. Details the eligibility criteria to receive a grant and the  factors the commission
must consider when awarding grants.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to higher education.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Higher Education Coordinating Commission  shall establish a grant
program for  the purpose of supporting organizations to expand the scope and community
reach of college access and success programs.
(2) In order to be eligible to receive a grant under this section, an organization must:
(a) Be a not-for-profit corporation that is tax exempt under section 501(c) of the Internal
Revenue Code;
(b) Be a community-based organization; or
(c) Be a public institution of higher education as defined in ORS 350.260.
(3) In awarding grants under this section, the commission shall consider:
(a) Whether an eligible organization has a  demonstrated history of providing successful
college access and success programs; and
(b) Whether an eligible organization has  a demonstrated history of providing programs
and services to populations that  are historically underrepresented in post-secondary insti-
tutions of education.
(4) The commission  shall adopt any rules necessary for the administration of this section,
including any rules related to:
(a) Specifying the form and timelines for submitting an application for a  grant under this
section;
(b) Determining whether an organization is eligible for a grant under this section;
(c) Calculating the amount to award to grant recipients under this section; and
(d) Collecting data required to evaluate program effectiveness.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 140