1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 1058
Sponsored by Senator SMITH DB (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act tells an agency to update a  plan about state forests to increase timber harvest.
(Flesch Readability Score: 63.6).
Instructs the State Forestry Department  to update a draft habitat conservation plan to increase
timber harvest from state forests in western Oregon and submit  the updated habitat conservation
plan to federal agencies. Provides that department actions  related to the update and submission are
not subject to the Administrative Procedures Act.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to a habitat conservation plan.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) Notwithstanding any contrary provision of  law, the State Forestry De-
partment shall, as soon as practicable:
(a) Update the draft Western Oregon State  Forests Habitat Conservation Plan (February
2022) to adopt a  proposed approach that is consistent with Alternative 5: Increased Timber
Harvest in the Draft Environmental Impact Statement for the Western Oregon State Forests
Habitat Conservation Plan (March 2022 at ES.5.5) prepared by the National Oceanic  and At-
mospheric Administration.
(b) Submit the updated habitat conservation  plan described in paragraph (a) of this sub-
section to the United States Fish and  Wildlife Service and the National Marine Fisheries
Service.
(2) Notwithstanding any contrary provision of law, department actions  to implement the
requirements of subsection (1) of this section are not  subject to the provisions of ORS
chapter 183.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2132