1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 223
Sponsored by  Senators GIROD, SOLLMAN, MANNING JR; Senators ANDERSON, FREDERICK, GELSER BLOUIN,
GORSEK, JAMA, PROZANSKI, REYNOLDS, SMITH DB, TAYLOR, WAGNER (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act directs ODE to design and give plaques to schools that have benefited  from
Senator Peter Courtney’s support of funding seismic  safety for schools. (Flesch Readability Score:
81.1).
Directs the Department of Education  to design and distribute memorial plaques to schools in
honor of Senator Peter Courtney’s contributions in  supporting seismic rehabilitation funding. Di-
rects recipients to display plaques at the front entrance.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to seismic rehabilitation memorial plaques for schools.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) As used in this section, “qualifying school” means a building or  preman-
ufactured structure that is used to provide educational  services to children in any grade
from kindergarten through grade 12 and that  has received a distribution for seismic reha-
bilitation from the Education Seismic Fund pursuant to ORS 286A.768.
(2) To recognize and honor Senator Peter Courtney’s contributions  for his role in sup-
porting seismic rehabilitation funding for schools in  this state, the Department of Education
shall design a memorial plaque. Plaques must be made from durable materials.
(3) The Oregon Business  Development Department shall provide the Department of Ed-
ucation a list of schools that have received distributions from the Education Seismic Fund
under ORS 286A.768 on or after January  1, 2009. The Oregon Business Development Depart-
ment shall update the list  and provide it to the Department of Education at least once each
calendar year.
(4) After receiving a list, or updated list, of qualifying schools from  the Oregon Business
Development Department under subsection (3) of  this section, the Department of Education
shall create and provide a memorial plaque to each qualifying school.
(5) A qualifying school that receives a memorial plaque shall:
(a) Prominently display the plaque outdoors near the school’s front entrance so that it
is easily viewable by visitors to the school; and
(b) Mount the plaque for display not later than one year after the  date of receiving the
plaque.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 942