1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
80th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2019 Regular Session
House Joint Resolution 13
Sponsored by Representatives RAYFIELD, KENY-GUYER, MARSH; Representatives  EVANS, FAHEY, NOSSE,
PILUSO, POWER, SANCHEZ, Senator GELSER (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced.
Proposes amendment to  Oregon Constitution to permit Legislative Assembly, governing body of
city, county, municipality or district, or people through initiative process, to enact laws or regu-
lations regulating use of moneys in political campaigns.
Provides that amendment to Constitution applies only to laws enacted  on or after December 3,
2020.
Refers proposed amendment to people for their approval or rejection at next  regular general
election.
JOINT RESOLUTION
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
PARAGRAPH 1.
 Section 8, Article II of the  Constitution of the State of Oregon, is amended to
read:
Sec. 8. (1) The Legislative Assembly shall enact laws to support the privilege  of free suffrage,
prescribing the manner of  regulating, and conducting elections, and prohibiting under adequate
penalties, all undue influence therein, from power, bribery, tumult, and other improper conduct.[ -]
(2) The Legislative Assembly, the governing body of a city, county, municipality or  dis-
trict empowered by law or  by this Constitution to enact legislation, or the people through
the initiative process, may enact laws  or regulations regulating the use of moneys in political
campaigns, including:
(a) Limiting contributions made in connection with political campaigns;
(b) Requiring the disclosure of contributions or expenditures, as  defined in state law,
made in connection with political campaigns;
(c) Requiring that an advertisement made in connection with a political campaign identify
the person or entity who paid for the advertisement; and
(d) Any other regulation on the use of moneys  in political campaigns permitted under
federal law.
(3) Subsection (2) of this section applies to laws and regulations enacted by the Legisla-
tive Assembly or the governing body of a city,  county, municipality or district, or enacted
or approved by the people through the initiative process, on or after December 3, 2020.
PARAGRAPH 2.
The amendment proposed by this resolution shall be submitted to  the
people for their approval or rejection  at the next regular general election held throughout
this state.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2780