79th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2017 Regular Session
Enrolled
Senate Bill 57
Printed pursuant to Senate Interim  Rule 213.28 by order of the President of the Senate in conform-
ance with presession filing rules, indicating neither advocacy nor  opposition on the part of the
President (at the request of Governor Kate Brown for Oregon Long-Term Care Ombudsman)
CHAPTER .................................................
AN ACT
Relating to the Oregon Public Guardian and Conservator; creating  new provisions; and amending
ORS 125.242, 125.675, 125.678, 125.683, 125.685, 125.687, 441.406 and 441.419.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.  ORS 125.678 is amended to read:
125.678. (1) The Long Term Care Ombudsman appointed under ORS  441.403, in consultation with
the Residential Facilities Advisory Committee, shall appoint  the Oregon Public Guardian and
Conservator in the  office of the Long Term Care Ombudsman for a four-year term. The Oregon
Public Guardian and Conservator serves at the pleasure  of the Long Term Care Ombudsman and
may be removed by the Long Term Care Ombudsman for good  cause. If there is a vacancy for any
cause, the Long Term Care  Ombudsman shall make an appointment within 60 days. The Oregon
Public Guardian and Conservator shall  receive a salary as fixed by the Long Term Care Ombudsman
and be reimbursed  for all reasonable travel and other expenses incurred in the performance of offi-
cial duties.
(2) The Oregon Public  Guardian and Conservator shall be responsible for carrying out the
powers, duties and functions of the Oregon Public  Guardian and Conservator pursuant to ORS
125.675 to 125.687, within the office of the  Long Term Care Ombudsman[ , and subject to the direction,
supervision and control of the Long Term Care Ombudsman ].
(3) The Oregon Public Guardian and Conservator[ , in consultation with and subject  to the ap-
proval of the Long Term Care Ombudsman, ] may:
(a) Hire or contract with volunteers, staff,  deputy public guardians and conservators and other
qualified individuals, as necessary, to carry out  the powers, duties and functions of the Oregon
Public Guardian and Conservator;
(b) Prescribe the duties and assignments of persons hired or under contract  with the Oregon
Public Guardian and Conservator;
(c) Fix the compensation, including reasonable travel and other  expenses incurred in the per-
formance of official duties, of persons  hired by or under contract with the Oregon Public Guardian
and Conservator subject to the State Personnel Relations Law; and
(d) Adopt rules to carry out the provisions of ORS 125.675 to 125.687.
(4) The Long Term  Care Ombudsman may hire or contract with staff to serve in the office of
the Long Term Care  Ombudsman as necessary to [ carry out the powers, duties and functions of the
Long Term Care Ombudsman  in supervising, monitoring, advising and supporting ] advise and sup-
port the Oregon Public Guardian and Conservator as required under ORS 441.406.
Enrolled Senate Bill 57 (SB 57-A) Page 1
[(5)] (5)(a) The Oregon Public Guardian and  Conservator may delegate the exercise or discharge
of any power, duty or function that is vested in  or imposed by law upon the Oregon Public Guardian
and Conservator to a deputy public guardian and conservator, staff person  or volunteer hired by or
under contract with the Oregon Public Guardian and Conservator  as appropriate for the purpose
of conducting an  official act in the name of the Oregon Public Guardian and Conservator. The offi-
cial act of any person  acting in the name of the Oregon Public Guardian and Conservator by the
authority of the Oregon Public Guardian and Conservator is an official  act of the Oregon Public
Guardian and Conservator.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this subsection,  a court may not appoint a deputy
public guardian and conservator as a fiduciary in a proceeding under  ORS 125.675 to 125.687
but shall appoint the Oregon Public Guardian and Conservator as the fiduciary in  the pro-
ceeding.
(6) The Oregon Public Guardian and  Conservator may solicit and accept gifts, grants and do-
nations from public and private sources for the purpose of carrying out the  provisions of ORS
125.675 to 125.687, which moneys shall  be deposited in the [ Long Term Care Ombudsman Account
established under ORS 441.419 ] Oregon Public Guardian  and Conservator Fund established un-
der section 7 of this 2017 Act .
SECTION 2.  ORS 125.683 is amended to read:
125.683. (1) In providing public guardian  and conservator services, the Oregon Public Guardian
and Conservator shall conduct a needs assessment  for a person who claims or is claimed not to have
relatives or friends willing or able to assume the duties of guardianship or conservatorship and who
claims or is claimed to lack the financial resources to obtain  a private guardian or conservator. The
purpose of the needs assessment is to determine the  person’s eligibility to receive public guardian
and conservator services and to determine the appropriateness  of filing a petition for the appoint-
ment of a fiduciary or other pleading  on behalf of the person in a court having probate jurisdiction.
The needs assessment shall, at a minimum:
(a) Assess the person’s capacity to:
(A) Care for the person’s own safety;
(B) Manage the person’s own financial affairs; and
(C) Attend to and provide for necessities such as food, shelter, clothing and medical care;
(b) Assess the person’s financial  resources[ , based on information available or supplied to the
Oregon Public Guardian and Conservator at the time of the assessment ];
(c) Determine whether [ the available] information  that is available  about the person is sufficient
to support a finding that the person is incapacitated or financially incapable[ ,] and the entry of a
court order for the appointment of a fiduciary under ORS 125.010;
(d) Determine  whether any other person may be willing and able to serve as the person’s
guardian or conservator and, if appropriate, locate and contact that other person;
(e) Determine the type of fiduciary, if any, to request  in a petition filed under ORS 125.055,
giving preference to the least intrusive form of  fiduciary relationship consistent with the best in-
terests of the person; and
(f) Determine how best to provide public guardian and conservator services to the person that
are least restrictive to  the person’s liberty, that are least intrusive to the person and that provide
for the greatest degree of independence that the person is capable of exercising.
(2)(a) If the person is  a resident of a nursing home as defined in ORS 678.710 or a resi-
dential facility as defined in ORS 441.402, the nursing home or residential  facility shall pro-
vide the Oregon Public Guardian and Conservator access  to the person’s records as is
necessary to conduct the needs assessment required under this section.
(b) Any other public agency that has provided or is providing care or services  to the
person shall disclose to the Oregon Public Guardian  and Conservator, upon request, a mini-
mum amount of information about the person for whom the needs assessment  is being con-
ducted, including protected health information  as defined in ORS 192.556 and financial
information, as is  reasonably necessary to prevent or lessen a serious and imminent threat
Enrolled Senate Bill 57 (SB 57-A) Page 2
to the health or safety of the person who is the subject  of the needs assessment. For pur-
poses of  this paragraph, a request from the Oregon Public Guardian and Conservator for the
purpose of conducting a needs assessment is presumed to be a situation that will prevent
or lessen a serious and imminent threat to the health or safety of the person.
(c) Any health care provider not identified  in either paragraph (a) or (b) of this sub-
section may disclose protected  health information to the Oregon Public Guardian and
Conservator in accordance with 45 C.F.R. 164.512 (j)  to prevent or lessen a serious or immi-
nent threat to the health or safety of a person if the  health care provider, in good faith,
believes the  disclosure is necessary to prevent or lessen the threat. For purposes of this
paragraph, a request  from the Oregon Public Guardian and Conservator for disclosure under
this paragraph for the purposes of conducting a needs assessment, or the good faith belief
and disclosure of the health care provider under this paragraph, are presumed to be  situ-
ations that will prevent or lessen a  serious and imminent threat to the health or safety of
the person.
[(2)] (3) For each person determined to be eligible for public guardian and conservator services
under this section, the Oregon Public Guardian  and Conservator shall develop a written plan setting
forth the type and duration of services to be provided by the Oregon Public Guardian and
Conservator. The plan shall be included in any nonemergency petition or pleading filed  with the
court.
SECTION 3.
 ORS 125.685 is amended to read:
125.685. (1) A deputy public guardian and conservator providing public guardian and conservator
services under ORS 125.675 to 125.687[ :]
[(a)] must be certified as a deputy public guardian and conservator by  the Oregon Public
Guardian and Conservator .[; and ]
[(b) If appointed by the  court as public guardian and conservator for a client, shall serve as pro-
vided in this chapter and ORS 127.005 and 127.015, except as expressly stated otherwise in  ORS
125.675 to 125.687.]
(2) A volunteer of the Oregon Public Guardian and Conservator must  provide, in writing, the
volunteer’s criminal history and must  submit or consent to a criminal records check, including
fingerprint identification.
(3) Volunteers:
(a) May not conduct the needs assessments required under ORS 125.683;
(b) May not engage in conduct that constitutes the unlicensed practice of law;
(c) Shall be under the  supervision and control of the Oregon Public Guardian and Conservator
or of a deputy public guardian and conservator;
(d) Shall be instructed  in confidentiality and shall maintain the confidentiality of clients and of
written information and materials relating to clients;
(e) May not receive compensation or any other benefit but may  be reimbursed for reasonable
travel and other expenses incurred in the  performance of their duties on behalf of the Oregon Public
Guardian and Conservator; and
(f) Except for intentional misconduct or conduct that is grossly negligent, are immune  from civil
liability for any acts or omissions occurring, or errors in judgment made in good  faith, in the course
of providing authorized public guardian and conservator services.
SECTION 4.
 ORS 125.687 is amended to read:
125.687. (1) A court  may not appoint the Oregon Public Guardian and Conservator [ or a deputy
public guardian and conservator ] as a fiduciary for  a person unless the Oregon Public Guardian and
Conservator [ or deputy public guardian and conservator ] has petitioned for or  consented to the ap-
pointment. If appointed as a fiduciary by the court, the Oregon  Public Guardian and
Conservator, and any deputy public guardian and conservator designated  to act on behalf of
the Oregon  Public Guardian and Conservator, shall serve as provided in this chapter and
ORS 127.005 and 127.015, except as expressly stated otherwise in ORS 125.675 to 125.687 or
by order of the court.
Enrolled Senate Bill 57 (SB 57-A) Page 3
(2) The Oregon Public Guardian and Conservator shall file an official bond in [ such amount as
may be fixed from time to time by the Long Term Care Ombudsman ] an amount determined  in
consultation with the  Oregon Department of Administrative Services . The bond shall inure to
the joint benefit of the several public guardianship and conservatorship estates in  which the Oregon
Public Guardian  and Conservator is providing services, but a bond is not required to be filed in in-
dividual estates.
(3) The court may not charge  the Oregon Public Guardian and  Conservator  a fee for the
filing of a petition or any other pleading under this chapter [ by the Oregon Public Guardian and
Conservator  or  a deputy public guardian and conservator ] when the filing is made in connection with
the provision of public guardian and conservator services under ORS 125.675 to 125.687.
(4)(a) The court shall order the client or the client’s estate  to pay for reasonable expenses in-
curred, including compensation for services rendered, in the provision  of public guardian and
conservator services to the client, including but not limited to court costs and attorney fees.
(b) If a client is indigent, the Oregon Public Guardian and Conservator [ and the office of the
Long Term Care Ombudsman ] shall  have a claim against the client or the client’s estate for the
portion of any payment ordered under paragraph (a) of this subsection that remains unpaid.
(5) The court may  not order the Oregon Public Guardian and Conservator, a deputy public
guardian and conservator or the  office of the Long Term Care Ombudsman to pay court costs or
attorney fees in a proceeding brought on behalf of a client under ORS 125.675 to 125.687.
SECTION 5. Sections 6, 7 and 8 of this 2017 Act are added to  and made a part of ORS
125.675 to 125.687.
SECTION 6. For the purpose of  requesting a state or nationwide criminal records check
under ORS 181A.195, the Oregon Public Guardian  and Conservator may require the
fingerprints of an employee of the Oregon Public Guardian and Conservator, an applicant for
employment with the Oregon Public Guardian and Conservator or  a volunteer or party under
contract with the Oregon Public Guardian and Conservator.
SECTION 7.
(1) The Oregon Public Guardian and  Conservator Fund is established in the
State Treasury, separate and  distinct from the General Fund. Interest earned by the Oregon
Public Guardian and Conservator Fund shall be credited to the fund. The fund consists of:
(a) Moneys appropriated or otherwise transferred to the fund by the Legislative Assem-
bly;
(b) Moneys received from federal, state or local sources;
(c) Amounts donated to the fund;
(d) Investment earnings received on moneys in the fund; and
(e) Other amounts deposited in the fund from any source.
(2) Moneys in the fund are continuously appropriated  to the Oregon Public Guardian and
Conservator for the purposes of ORS 125.675 to 125.687.
(3) Moneys in the fund may be invested and reinvested as provided in ORS 293.701 to
293.857.
(4) Moneys in the fund may be used by the Oregon Public  Guardian and Conservator for
administrative costs and expenses  of the Oregon Public Guardian and Conservator in per-
forming the duties and functions under ORS 125.675 to 125.687.
SECTION 8.
(1) The Oregon Public Guardian and Conservator Protected Person Trust
Account is established in the State Treasury separate  and distinct from the General Fund
and the Oregon Public Guardian and Conservator Fund. Moneys in the  Oregon Public
Guardian and Conservator Protected Person Trust Account  consists of moneys received on
behalf of persons for whom the  Oregon Public Guardian and Conservator has been appointed
as a guardian or  conservator. All moneys in the account are continuously appropriated to
the Oregon Public Guardian and Conservator to be used for the benefit of  a person for whom
the Oregon Public Guardian and Conservator has been appointed as a  guardian or
conservator and on  whose behalf the Oregon Public Guardian and Conservator has received
moneys.
Enrolled Senate Bill 57 (SB 57-A) Page 4
(2) The Oregon Public Guardian and Conservator shall administer the trust account:
(a) For the benefit of persons for whom the  Oregon Public Guardian and Conservator has
been appointed a guardian or  conservator and on whose behalf the Oregon Public Guardian
and Conservator has received moneys; and
(b) In accordance with the provisions of this chapter or as ordered by the court.
(3) The Oregon Public Guardian and Conservator may establish subaccounts within  the
Oregon Public Guardian and  Conservator Protected Person Trust Account when the Oregon
Public Guardian and Conservator determines that subaccounts are  necessary or desirable.
Interest earned by  the account or subaccounts, if any, shall accrue to the benefit of the ac-
count or subaccounts.
SECTION 9.
 ORS 125.242 is amended to read:
125.242. ORS 125.221 and 125.240  do not apply to a financial institution, as defined in ORS
706.008, [ or] a  trust company, as defined in ORS 706.008  or the  Oregon Public Guardian and
Conservator in proceedings under ORS 125.675 to 125.687 .
SECTION 10.  ORS 441.406 is amended to read:
441.406. (1) The office of the Long Term Care Ombudsman shall carry out the following duties:
(a) Investigate and resolve complaints made by or for residents of residential  facilities about
administrative actions that may adversely affect their health, safety, welfare  or rights, including
subpoenaing any person  to appear, give sworn testimony or to produce documentary or other evi-
dence that is reasonably material to any matter under investigation.
(b) Undertake, participate in or cooperate with persons and  agencies in such conferences, in-
quiries, meetings or studies as may lead to improvements in the functioning of  residential facilities.
(c) Monitor the development and  implementation of federal, state and local laws, regulations and
policies that relate to residential facilities in this state.
(d) Provide information to public agencies about the problems of residents  of residential facili-
ties.
(e) Work closely with cooperative  associations and citizen groups in this state and the state
protection and advocacy system under ORS 192.517.
(f) Widely publicize the Long Term Care Ombudsman’s service, purpose and mode of operation.
(g) Collaborate  with the Oregon Health Authority, the Department of Human Services, the
Nursing Home Administrators Board and any other appropriate agencies  and organizations to es-
tablish a statewide system to collect  and analyze information on complaints and conditions in resi-
dential facilities for the purpose of publicizing improvements and resolving significant problems.
(h)(A) Identify and coordinate programs, services and other assistance for persons  receiving
public guardian and conservator services  under ORS 125.675 to 125.687, that are available statewide;
(B) Contract  with qualified individuals and entities to provide programs, services and assistance
to persons receiving  public guardian and conservator services under ORS 125.675 to 125.687 who
are located in areas of this state where such  programs, services and other assistance are inadequate
or nonexistent; and
(C) Contract with the state protection and advocacy system described in ORS 192.517 (1)  to
provide services and assistance to persons who are  prospective or current residents of a mental
health treatment facility or of a  residential facility for individuals with developmental disabilities
when the system has received a notice regarding the person pursuant to ORS 125.060 (7)(c) or (8)(c).
(i) Appoint designees to serve as local representatives of the office in various districts  of the
state and regularly monitor their functions.
(j) Specify qualifications and duties of designees.
(k) Adopt rules necessary for carrying out  ORS 441.402 to 441.414, after consultation with the
Residential Facilities Advisory Committee.
(L) Provide periodically, or  at least annually, a report to the Governor, authority, department
and Legislative Assembly.
(m) Prepare necessary reports with the assistance of the authority and the department.
Enrolled Senate Bill 57 (SB 57-A) Page 5
(n) [ Supervise, monitor, ] Advise and support the Oregon Public Guardian and  Conservator ap-
pointed under ORS 125.678.
(2) At least quarterly, the Oregon Health Authority and the Department of Human Services shall
provide the Long Term Care Ombudsman with a list of the number of licensed or certified  beds in
each residential facility for which the ombudsman has responsibilities under this section.
(3) As used in this section, “administrative action” means any  action or decision made by an
owner, employee or agent of a residential facility or by a public agency that affects the services  to
residents of the facility.
SECTION 11.  ORS 441.419 is amended to read:
441.419. The Long Term Care Ombudsman Account is established in the State  Treasury, sepa-
rate and distinct from the General Fund. All miscellaneous receipts, gifts and federal and  other
grants received by the Long Term Care Ombudsman shall  be deposited into the Long Term Care
Ombudsman Account and are continuously appropriated to the Long Term Care Ombudsman  for
carrying out the responsibilities of the Long  Term Care Ombudsman [ and the Oregon Public
Guardian and Conservator ].
SECTION 12.  ORS 125.675 is amended to read:
125.675. For purposes of ORS 125.675 to 125.687:
(1) “Client” means a person who receives public guardian  and conservator services from the
Oregon Public Guardian and Conservator.
(2) “Deputy public guardian and conservator” means a person who is employed by or under
contract with the Oregon Public Guardian and Conservator, who is certified by the Oregon Public
Guardian and Conservator and who provides  services as a fiduciary [ appointed by the court to
clients] under ORS 125.675 to 125.687.
(3) “Public guardian and conservator services” means services, including but not limited to  in-
formation, assistance and  services as a court-appointed fiduciary in guardianship or conservatorship
proceedings that are provided by deputy public guardians and conservators, volunteers  and staff
under the supervision and control of the Oregon Public Guardian and Conservator.
Passed by Senate May 3, 2017
..................................................................................
Lori L. Brocker, Secretary of Senate
..................................................................................
Peter Courtney, President of Senate
Passed by House June 6, 2017
..................................................................................
Tina Kotek, Speaker of House
Received by Governor:
........................M.,........................................................., 2017
Approved:
........................M.,........................................................., 2017
..................................................................................
Kate Brown, Governor
Filed in Office of Secretary of State:
........................M.,........................................................., 2017
..................................................................................
Dennis Richardson, Secretary of State
Enrolled Senate Bill 57 (SB 57-A) Page 6