1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2043
Sponsored by Representative NOSSE (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act gives money to  DAS to grant to Oasis of Praise for real property. (Flesch
Readability Score: 84.4).
Appropriates moneys from the General Fund  to the Oregon Department of Administrative Ser-
vices for distribution to Oasis of Praise International  Ministries to acquire, renovate and rehabili-
tate real property.
Declares an emergency, effective July 1, 2025.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to state financial administration; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there is appro-
priated to the Oregon Department  of Administrative Services, for the biennium beginning
July 1, 2025, out of the General Fund, the amount of $3,000,000, to be  distributed by grant to
Oasis of Praise International Ministries, a domestic  nonprofit corporation, for the purpose
of acquiring, rehabilitating and renovating real property to be used for the sole purpose of
providing nonreligious community resources and services.
(2) Before issuing the  grant under this section, the department shall enter into a grant
agreement with the recipient that prohibits the recipient from using the  real property, and
any proceeds from the disposition of the real property, for religious or sectarian purposes.
SECTION 2.
This 2025 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist,  and this 2025 Act takes effect
July 1, 2025.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 652