1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Joint Resolution 25
Sponsored by Senator BONHAM (at the request of Senator Noah Robinson) (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The measure would make the legislature pass the schools budget early in  each long
session. (Flesch Readability Score: 67.5).
Proposes an amendment to the Oregon Constitution to require  the Legislative Assembly, in each
odd-numbered year regular session, to appropriate moneys to fund public education in the  first 80
days of the session and before passing any other budget measure.
Refers the proposed amendment to the people for their approval or rejection at the next regular
general election.
JOINT RESOLUTION
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
PARAGRAPH 1.
 The Constitution of the State of Oregon is amended by creating a new  section
35 to be added to and made a part of Article IV, such section to read:
SECTION 35. (1) Within the first 80 days after the commencement of each odd-numbered
year regular session, the Legislative Assembly must  pass one or more measures to appro-
priate moneys sufficient to pay for adequate public education, during the biennium beginning
July 1 of the year in which the session is  held, for students in kindergarten through grade
12.
(2) Until the measure or measures described in subsection (1) of this section are  passed,
the Legislative Assembly may not pass any other budget measure.
(3) As used in this section,  “budget measure” means a measure that appropriates moneys
or imposes a limitation on expenditures of continuously appropriated moneys  and that is
prohibited from containing provisions on other subjects  under section 7, Article IX of this
Constitution.
PARAGRAPH 2.
The amendment proposed by this resolution shall be submitted to  the
people for their approval or rejection  at the next regular general election held throughout
this state.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 3254