1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 516
Sponsored by Senator SMITH DB, Representative OWENS (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act  gives money to an agency for an inspection program. The program relates to
small-scale meat processing and sales. (Flesch Readability Score: 65.5).
Appropriates  moneys  to the State Department of Agriculture for purposes related to a program
of state inspection for the processing and sale of meat products from nonamenable species.
Declares an emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to a program of state inspection by the State Department of Agriculture; and  declaring an
emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) There is appropriated to the State Department of Agriculture,  for the
biennium beginning July 1, 2025, out of the General Fund, the amount of $______, for  hiring
up to  the equivalent of two full-time staff members for the program of state inspection au-
thorized by ORS 619.042.
(2) The department shall ensure that  the staff members described in subsection (1) of
this section undertake activities in an equitable manner across this state, prioritizing:
(a) Slaughter-specific facilities.
(b) Facilities in rural and underserved communities.
(c) Facilities that receive funding under the  Oregon Meat Processing Infrastructure and
Capacity Building Grant Program.
SECTION 2.
This 2025 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist,  and this 2025 Act takes effect
on its passage.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1877