1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2023 Regular Session
House Bill 2475
Sponsored by Representative WALLAN (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Prohibits public institution of education  or educational employee from requiring, compelling,
coercing or otherwise directing student to acknowledge, affirm, declare, confess,  state or in any way
act in accordance with belief that any race, ethnicity, color, sex,  gender, religion or national origin
is inherently superior or inferior to another, that individual may be discriminated against or  treated
in different manner on basis of  individual’s membership in particular group or classification, or that
any individual, by  virtue of individual’s membership in particular group or classification, endorses,
benefits uniquely from or is inherently responsible for actions that  other individuals with member-
ship in same group or classification have taken.
Prohibits public institution of education from providing, withholding or conditioning grading,
academic credit or other educational benefits  on basis of student’s compliance with prohibited
actions. Prohibits distinguishing between, classifying or assigning benefits or detriments to  student
on basis of student’s membership in particular group  or classification. Prohibits using public moneys
for prohibited purposes.
Permits any person to bring action to  enjoin educational employee or public institution of edu-
cation from taking prohibited action.
Declares emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to nondiscrimination in public education; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Legislative Assembly intends in section 2 of this 2023 Act to  require
that educational institutions in this state, including public schools and public school districts,
education service districts, public charter schools  and public institutions of higher education,
and all administrators, faculty members, teachers, employees  and students who work at or
attend educational institutions in  this state respect the dignity of others and acknowledge
the rights others have to express differing opinions and to foster and  defend intellectual
honesty, freedom of inquiry and instruction and freedom of speech and association.
(2) The provisions of section 2 of this 2023 Act must be construed liberally to effect the
purposes set forth in this section.
SECTION 2. (1) As used in this section:
(a) “Educational employee” means an administrator, faculty member,  teacher, employee
or other person that for  compensation performs administrative or instructional services for,
or under contract on behalf of, a public institution of education.
(b) “Public institution of education” means:
(A) A  common school district, union high school district or similar educational institu-
tion that offers instruction for any grade from kindergarten through  grade 12 and that re-
ceives funding, directly or indirectly, from the State Treasury or from ad valorem property
taxation;
(B) An education service district;
(C) A public charter school or virtual public charter school, as defined in ORS 338.005;
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1179
HB 2475
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
(D) A private entity that provides educational services under contract with or under  the
authority of a public charter school or district school board;
(E) A community college or community college district, as defined in ORS 341.005; or
(F) A public  university listed in ORS 352.002 or the Oregon Health and Science University.
(2) A public institution of education or  an educational employee may not in any instruc-
tional or other context:
(a) Require, compel, coerce or otherwise direct a  student at the public institution of ed-
ucation to acknowledge, affirm, declare, confess, state or in any way act in accordance with
a belief that:
(A) Any  race, ethnicity, color, sex, gender, religion or national origin is inherently supe-
rior or inferior to another;
(B) An individual may be discriminated against  or treated in a different manner on the
basis of the individual’s membership in a group or classification listed in subparagraph (A)
of this paragraph; or
(C) Any individual, by virtue of the  individual’s membership in a group or classification
listed in subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, endorses, benefits uniquely from or  is inher-
ently responsible for actions that other individuals with membership  in the same group or
classification have taken;
(b) Provide, withhold or condition  grading, academic credit or other educational benefits
on the basis of the student’s compliance with an action prohibited under paragraph (a) of this
subsection; or
(c) Distinguish between, classify or assign benefits or detriments to  a student on the
basis of the student’s membership in a group or classification listed in paragraph (a)(A) of
this subsection.
(3) A public institution of education may not expend any public moneys for a purpose that
subsection (2) of this section prohibits.
(4) Any person may bring an action in a court of this state to enjoin an  educational em-
ployee or a public institution of education  from taking an action prohibited under subsection
(2) or  (3) of this section. The court shall award reasonable attorney fees and costs to a
plaintiff that prevails in an action under this subsection.
(5) This section does not prohibit  collecting or reporting demographic information that
a public institution of education must collect or report under applicable law.
SECTION 3.
This 2023 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist,  and this 2023 Act takes effect
on its passage.
[2]