1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 801
Printed pursuant to  Senate Interim Rule 213.28 by order of the President of the Senate in conformance with pre-
session filing rules,  indicating neither advocacy nor opposition on the part of the President (at the request
of Governor Tina Kotek for Oregon Military Department)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Allows the Adjutant General (AG) to have two  Assistant AGs from the Air National
Guard to help lead. Gives an Acting AG 30 days from the start of their  duties to give to the state
a fidelity bond. (Flesch Readability Score: 69.5).
Increases from one to two the number of Assistant Adjutants General from the Air  National
Guard of Oregon that the Adjutant General may appoint.
Provides an Acting Adjutant General 30 days after assuming the  duties of the office to give the
state a fidelity bond  when an absence of the Adjutant General is caused by death or other inability.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to the office of Adjutant General; amending ORS 396.165.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 396.165 is amended to read:
396.165. (1) The Adjutant General may appoint  [ three] four Assistant Adjutants General, two
from the Army National Guard of Oregon and  [one] two from the Air National Guard of Oregon who
shall serve at the pleasure of the Adjutant  General or until relieved by reason of resignation,
withdrawal of federal recognition or for cause to be determined by a  court-martial. Voluntary entry
onto extended active duty by a person holding the office  of Assistant Adjutant General shall be
deemed automatic resignation of such officer.
(2) To be eligible for appointment to the office of Assistant Adjutant General, a  person must be
an officer of the Oregon National Guard, federally  recognized in the grade of lieutenant colonel or
higher, and must have completed at least six years  service in the Oregon National Guard as a
federally recognized officer.
(3) An  Assistant Adjutant General may be appointed in the grade of lieutenant colonel or higher,
but not exceeding  that of brigadier general. An Assistant Adjutant General may be promoted by the
Governor to any grade not exceeding that of brigadier general, to serve in  such grade only upon
receipt of federal recognition therein.
(4) The Assistant Adjutants General  shall perform such duties as may be assigned by the Adju-
tant General.
(5) An Assistant Adjutant General shall be compensated at a rate determined by the  Oregon
Department of Administrative Services.
(6) In any absence  of the Adjutant General caused by death or other inability to perform the
duties of the  office, the Governor or the Adjutant General may designate an Assistant Adjutant
General to be the Acting Adjutant General.  Except when the Governor or the Adjutant General
designates another of the Assistant Adjutants General  to be the Acting Adjutant General, the As-
sistant Adjutant  General senior in military grade shall assume the responsibilities and powers and
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 308
SB 801
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
perform all the duties  required of the Adjutant General, and shall be Acting Adjutant General. An
officer serving as Acting Adjutant General under this section shall continue to  receive the salary
authorized for an Assistant Adjutant General, when the officer is a state employee, but shall other-
wise receive the salary authorized for the Adjutant General. The Acting Adjutant General shall
serve until the Adjutant General is again able to perform the duties of the office, or if such office
is vacant, until an  Adjutant General is regularly appointed and qualified. [ While so serving, ] Within
30 days after assuming the duties of the office,  the Acting Adjutant General shall give to the
state a fidelity bond in the same manner  and in the same sum as is required from the Adjutant
General.
[2]