1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
81st OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2021 Regular Session
House Joint Resolution 8
Sponsored by Representative POST; Representative OWENS (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Proposes  amendment  to Oregon Constitution to require Legislative Assembly, in each odd-
numbered year regular session, to appropriate moneys to fund public education in  first 60 days of
session and before passing any other budget measure.
Refers proposed amendment to people for their approval or rejection at next  regular general
election.
JOINT RESOLUTION
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
PARAGRAPH 1.
 The Constitution of the State of Oregon is amended by creating a new  section
34 to be added to and made a part of Article IV, such section to read:
SECTION 34. (1) Within the first 60 days after the commencement of each odd-numbered
year regular session, the  Legislative Assembly must pass measures appropriating moneys
sufficient to pay for  adequate public education, during the biennium beginning July 1 of the
year in which the session is held, for students in kindergarten through grade 12.
(2) Until the measures described in subsection (1) of this  section are passed, the Legis-
lative Assembly may not pass any other budget measure.
(3) As used in this section,  “budget measure” means a measure that appropriates moneys
or imposes a limitation  on expenditures of continuously appropriated moneys and that is
prohibited from containing provisions on other subjects under  section 7, Article IX of this
Constitution.
PARAGRAPH 2. The amendment proposed by this resolution shall be submitted to the
people for their approval or rejection at the next  regular general election held throughout
this state.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1472