1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 961
Sponsored by COMMITTEE ON VETERANS, EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT, FEDERAL AND WORLD AFFAIRS
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act would  set up a sister state committee for Oregon and Ireland. (Flesch Read-
ability Score: 63.4).
Creates the Oregon-Ireland Sister State Committee.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to a sister state committee for Oregon and Ireland.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Oregon-Ireland Sister  State Committee is created consisting of the
following members:
(a) The President of the Senate as an ex officio member  and cochairperson of the com-
mittee;
(b) The Speaker of the House of Representatives as  an ex officio member and
cochairperson of the committee;
(c) Two members of the Senate who are not members of the  same political party, ap-
pointed by the President of the Senate;
(d) Two members of the House of Representatives who are not members of the same
political party, appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives;
(e) Four members  representing Oregon’s business community, appointed by the President
of the Senate;
(f) Four members representing Oregon’s business community, appointed by the  Speaker
of the House of Representatives;
(g)(A) One former member of the Senate, appointed by the President  of the Senate, and
one former member of the House of Representatives, appointed by the  Speaker of the House
of Representatives; or
(B) If one of the potential appointees described  in subparagraph (A) of this paragraph is
not available, two former members of the  Legislative Assembly, appointed jointly by the
President of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives;
(h) Two public members, appointed by the President of the Senate;
(i) Two public members, appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives; and
(j) If the cochairpersons agree, one elected state official, appointed jointly by  the
cochairpersons.
(2) The President  of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives may
each designate an alternate from time to time from among the  members of their respective
chambers to exercise powers as a member  of the Oregon-Ireland Sister State Committee
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 4029
SB 961
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
when the President or Speaker is not in attendance at a committee meeting,  except that an
alternate may not preside over a committee meeting in place of the President or Speaker.
(3) The President of the Senate and the Speaker  of the House of Representatives shall
jointly select one of the members appointed under subsection (1)(e)  or (f) of this section to
be executive director to plan for and coordinate activities under section 2 of this 2025 Act.
(4)(a) A member of the Legislative Assembly appointed  under subsection (1)(c) or (d) of
this section serves at the pleasure of the appointing authority and may continue  to serve as
long as  the member remains in the chamber of the Legislative Assembly from which the
member was appointed.
(b) Before the expiration of  the legislative term of office of a member appointed under
subsection (1)(c) or (d) of this section, the appointing authority shall appoint a successor
whose term on the committee begins when the former member’s legislative  term of office
ends.
(c) If there is a vacancy for a member appointed under subsection (1)(c)  or (d) of this
section for any other cause, the  appointing authority shall make an appointment to become
effective immediately.
(5)(a) The term of office of committee members appointed  under subsection (1)(e) to (j)
of this section is two years.
(b) A member appointed under subsection  (1)(e) to (j) of this section is eligible for reap-
pointment.
(c) If there is a vacancy for  a member appointed under subsection (1)(e) to (j) of this
section before the expiration of  the term, the appointing authority shall make an appoint-
ment to become effective immediately for the unexpired term.
(6)(a) The cochairpersons of the Oregon-Ireland  Sister State Committee shall preside al-
ternately at meetings of the committee.
(b) Members may attend  committee meetings in person or by telephone, video or other
electronic or virtual means.
(c) The committee may hold one or two meetings per calendar year.
(7) A majority of the members of the Oregon-Ireland  Sister State Committee constitutes
a quorum for the transaction of business.
(8) Members of the Legislative Assembly who are members  of the Oregon-Ireland Sister
State Committee are entitled to a per diem as provided in ORS 171.072 except when  members
are out of the United States.
(9) The Legislative Policy and Research Director shall provide administrative staff  sup-
port for one meeting of the Oregon-Ireland Sister State  Committee held before each visit
described in section 2 (2) of this 2025 Act and for one meeting held after each visit.
SECTION 2.
(1) The Oregon-Ireland Sister State Committee established under section 1
of this 2025 Act may:
(a) Organize activities for and host visiting delegations from Ireland;
(b) Organize activities for and participate in delegations visiting Ireland;
(c) Provide for the exchange of information between the State of Oregon and Ireland;
(d) Work with representatives of Ireland on joint projects; and
(e) Take all actions necessary to coordinate and promote Oregon exports  to Ireland and
Irish investments within Oregon.
(2) The Oregon-Ireland Sister State Committee may visit Ireland at  least biennially for
[2]
SB 961
1
2
the purpose of fulfilling the objectives described in subsection (1) of this section.
[3]