1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
80th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2020 Regular Session
Senate Bill 1508
Printed pursuant to  Senate Interim Rule 213.28 by order of the President of the Senate in conformance with pre-
session filing rules,  indicating neither advocacy nor opposition on the part of the President (at the request
of Senate Interim Committee on General Government and Emergency Preparedness)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Directs Office of Emergency Management  to create and maintain database of community emer-
gency response teams accessible by emergency management agencies  and emergency program man-
agers. Directs office to establish procedures for communicating with appropriate entities to  gather
and update database information.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to emergency resilience.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Office of  Emergency Management shall create and maintain a data-
base of community emergency response teams in Oregon.
(2) For each community emergency response team, the database  must contain informa-
tion, stored in a searchable format, including:
(a) The physical location where the team is based;
(b) Contact information for one or more team members;
(c) Specialized training or skills related to emergency response that team members have;
and
(d) Vehicles  or equipment that team members are willing to permit use of for emergency
response.
(3) The database must be accessible to emergency  management agencies and emergency
program managers described in ORS  401.305. The office may make the database accessible
to any other persons or entities if the office determines that providing such access will en-
hance public safety.
(4) The office shall establish procedures for communicating with emergency management
agencies or  other appropriate entities for the purposes of gathering information for the da-
tabase and regularly updating the information.
(5) The office may adopt rules necessary for the administration of this section.
(6) As used in this section, “community emergency response team” means a  group of
volunteers who are trained in accordance with guidelines adopted by  the Federal Emergency
Management Agency to provide certain emergency services  within a community, neighbor-
hood or other locality.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 168