1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2026 Regular Session
House Bill 4124
Sponsored by Representative  MARSH, Senators WAGNER, PATTERSON, Representatives EVANS, FRAGALA,
MCDONALD, Senators  BROADMAN, GOLDEN; Representatives BOWMAN, HARBICK, LEVY B, OWENS,
WALLAN, WISE, Senators FREDERICK, MANNING JR, NASH, SOLLMAN, WEBER (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Tells the HECC to  study the system of higher education in Oregon. Tells the HECC to
submit a report. Declares an emergency and becomes law when the  Governor signs it. (Flesch
Readability Score: 64.1).
Directs the Higher Education Coordinating Commission to conduct a  study of the condition of
Oregon’s post-secondary education system and to develop detailed recommendations for the design,
implementation and operation of a viable and superior institutional framework. Directs the commis-
sion to submit a report to the interim committees of the Legislative Assembly related  to higher ed-
ucation on or before December 1, 2026.
Declares an emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to the state post-secondary education system; and declaring an emergency.
Whereas about a decade ago Oregon established a statewide system of independent universities
and the Higher Education Coordinating Commission; and
Whereas Oregon’s post-secondary education institutions have unique missions  and should serve
distinct populations; and
Whereas Oregon’s system of independent boards at  public universities and community colleges
provides essential oversight and direction to the mission and operation of these institutions  of
higher education; and
Whereas market competition among Oregon’s post-secondary education institutions has eroded
cross-institutional collaboration, impaired focus on regional and state needs  and undermined public
confidence in the system as a  vital source of economic development and employment opportunities;
and
Whereas after about a decade of operations, Oregon must reevaluate the accessibility,  financial
resiliency, efficiency, effectiveness  and coordination of its post-secondary education system to ensure
the system meets the diverse needs of Oregon’s students, economy and workforce; and
Whereas recent, current and projected demographic, enrollment and  market conditions and
trends coupled with the competitive landscape  for post-secondary education institutions, including
the effects of online and out-of-state programs, require Oregon institutions to strategically assess
financial and enrollment sustainability; and
Whereas Oregon’s public universities and community colleges are cornerstones of our  commu-
nities and engines of economic growth and  should be aligned to meet regional and state economic
needs; now, therefore,
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The  Higher Education Coordinating Commission shall conduct a study
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 174
HB 4124
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
of the condition of Oregon’s post-secondary  education system and develop detailed recom-
mendations for the design, implementation  and operation of a viable and superior institu-
tional framework that:
(a) Supports access to post-secondary education institutions  for students across ge-
ographic location, including rural communities and other underserved populations;
(b) Fuels regional and  statewide economic development and employment opportunities;
and
(c) Improves the financial viability  of each post-secondary education institution in
Oregon and the  post-secondary education system as a whole, including by addressing
projected enrollment, increased  personnel costs, changes in federal law or priorities, sector-
specific inflationary costs or other related factors.
(2) The study must  evaluate and make recommendations on each of the following sub-
jects:
(a) The distinct objectives and missions of each category of post-secondary  education
institution, including community college, public university, regional university and research
university, in consideration of key variables such as research, public  services, instruction,
academic programming, educational model and the student population served; and
(b) Opportunities  for collaboration, restructuring or integration in the post-secondary
education system.
(3) The study may evaluate  and make recommendations on each of the following subjects:
(a) Development of  academic programs and specialties to support current and emerging
regional and state economic development and workforce needs;
(b) Instances of unnecessary  program duplication across post-secondary education insti-
tutions and unmet program needs statewide;
(c) Structures and supports to connect  students and graduates to employers and em-
ployment opportunities;
(d) Funding strategies, including strategies to  foster collaboration, restructuring or in-
tegration in the post-secondary education system; and
(e) Metrics of affordability for students and financial health for post-secondary education
institutions.
(4) In developing recommendations under this  section, the commission shall consult
public institutions of higher education, including faculty, staff and students, and any other
interested stakeholders identified by the commission.
(5) The commission shall present the results of the study, along with  any recommended
legislative changes, in a report to the interim committees of the Legislative Assembly related
to higher education in the manner provided under ORS 192.245 on or before December 1, 2026.
(6) The commission may utilize third-party contractors  to carry out all or part of this
section.
SECTION 2.
This 2026 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist,  and this 2026 Act takes effect
on its passage.
[2]