1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 344
Sponsored by Senator SMITH DB (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: This  Act tells the Attorney General to sue the U.S. government if some wildfires that
cause bad air quality start on U.S. land. (Flesch Readability Score: 65.7).
Directs the Department of  Environmental Quality to notify the Attorney General if the air
quality index readings for an area of the state reach  250 or higher during seven consecutive days
and the cause is believed to be a wildfire originating on lands owned by the United States.
Directs the Attorney General to investigate and bring a civil action if the  wildfire was caused
by negligent or unlawful forest management practices.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to wildfire.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Department of  Environmental Quality shall notify the Attorney
General if:
(a) The department determines that air quality index readings for an  area of this state
have reached 250 or higher during seven consecutive days; and
(b) The cause of the elevated air quality index readings is reasonably believed to be
wildfire smoke from a wildfire that originated on lands owned by the United States.
(2) Upon receiving notice under subsection  (1) of this section, the Attorney General shall
investigate the cause of the wildfire. If the Attorney General determines that the wildfire
was caused, in whole or in part, by forest management practices  of the United States carried
out in a negligent or otherwise unlawful manner, the Attorney General shall bring an  ap-
propriate civil action in the name of the State of Oregon to secure  an injunction, damages
or other appropriate relief.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1347