1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
80th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2019 Regular Session
Senate Bill 282
Sponsored by  Senator MONNES ANDERSON, Representatives SANCHEZ, PILUSO; Representatives KENY-GUYER,
NOSSE, SALINAS (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Requires Department of Education, in cooperation with Oregon  Health Authority, to conduct
study to determine and recommend  appropriate health standards to govern student use of computers,
mobile digital devices and other electronic media in classrooms.
Requires department by rule to adopt guidelines for limiting student use of computers, mobile
digital devices and other electronic media in classrooms in accordance  with health and safety
guidelines department develops, allowing parent to give or deny consent for parent’s child to  par-
ticipate in curricula  that involve extensive work with computers, mobile digital devices or electronic
media and offering parent alternative curricula that involve less exposure to computers,  mobile
digital devices or electronic media.
Declares emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to use of electronic devices in classrooms; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Department of Education, in cooperation with the Oregon  Health
Authority, shall conduct a study to  determine and recommend appropriate health standards
to govern student use of computers, mobile digital devices and other  electronic media in the
classroom. The study, at  a minimum, must involve a review of relevant medical and other
literature that examines  the effects on children of excessive use of computers, mobile digital
devices and other electronic media.
(2) The department shall adopt by rule appropriate guidelines for:
(a) Limiting student use of computers, mobile  digital devices and other electronic media
in the classroom  in accordance with health and safety guidelines the department develops
following the study described in subsection (1) of this section.  In adopting the rules, the de-
partment shall consider guidelines and recommendations from reputable medical sources,
such as the American Academy of Pediatrics, and  shall take into account a child’s overall
use of computers, mobile digital devices and other electronic media  throughout the day and
not only in the classroom.
(b) Allowing a parent to give or  deny consent for the parent’s child to participate in
curricula that involve extensive work with computers, mobile digital  devices or electronic
media and offering the parent alternative curricula that involve less exposure  to computers,
mobile digital devices or electronic media.
(c) Encouraging more physical activity during the school day outside the classroom.
(3) The department shall develop materials to inform parents  of the hazards of excessive
use of computers, mobile digital devices and electronic media  and shall make the materials
available to schools, school employees and parents of students in public and private  schools
in this state.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1413
SB 282
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
(4) The department shall collect, store and use, and specify guidelines for schools to col-
lect, store and use, only the minimal amount of  data about students that is necessary to
implement educational programs.
SECTION 2. (1) Section 1 of this 2019 Act becomes operative on January 1, 2020.
(2) The Department of Education  may adopt rules and take any other action before the
operative date specified in subsection (1) of this section  that is necessary to enable the de-
partment, on  and after the operative date specified in subsection (1) of this section, to ex-
ercise all of the duties, functions and  powers conferred on the department by section 1 of
this 2019 Act.
SECTION 3. This 2019 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist,  and this 2019 Act takes effect
on its passage.
[2]