82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2023 Regular Session
Enrolled
Senate Bill 893
Sponsored by COMMITTEE ON HOUSING AND  DEVELOPMENT (at the request of Housing and
Community Services Department)
CHAPTER .................................................
AN ACT
Relating to homelessness; creating new provisions;  amending ORS 456.625 and 458.650; and declaring
an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1. (1) The Housing and Community Services Department  shall engage in efforts
under this section to  modify the state’s funding structure, based on the recommendations
from the Task Force on Homelessness  and Racial Disparities under section 7, chapter 448,
Oregon Laws 2021.
(2) To implement the recommendations from the Task Force on  Homelessness and Racial
Disparities, the department may  create committees and advisory committees for consider-
ation of rules, as provided under ORS 183.333, to help ensure  stakeholder engagement and
input, and to assist in designing policy frameworks, including funding mechanisms,  allo-
cations or formulas for developing allocations, for programs by:
(a) The nine federally recognized Indian tribes  within Oregon, as determined in partner-
ship with each tribe;
(b) Community action agencies, including antipoverty initiatives that intersect with
homelessness priorities;
(c) Continuums of care, as  defined in 24 C.F.R. part 578, and local planning groups, in-
cluding coordinated homeless response offices established  under section 1 (1), chapter 70,
Oregon Laws 2022; and
(d) Organizations that are culturally specific, culturally  responsive and culturally based,
and other organizations that are focused  on reducing disparities where there is a demon-
strated overrepresentation in homelessness.
(3) On or before March  15, 2024, the department shall provide a report to a committee
of the Legislative Assembly related to housing, in the manner provided in ORS 192.245, on:
(a) Implementing the statutory policy frameworks for changes in the state’s  investments
for implementation of the  recommendations described in this section for the biennium be-
ginning July 1, 2025; and
(b) Recommendations for statutorily modifying other  homeless service programs that the
department operates as a result of the changes described in paragraph (a) of  this subsection.
(4) In implementing the recommendations described in subsection (1) of this section,  the
department shall utilize  outcome-oriented contracting processes or evidence-based and
emerging practices for the programs and policies developed under subsection (2) of  this sec-
tion, including evidence-based and emerging practices for serving rural communities.
Enrolled Senate Bill 893 (SB 893-A) Page 1
SECTION 2. Section 1 of this 2023 Act is repealed on January 2, 2026.
SECTION 3.  ORS 456.625 is amended to read:
456.625. The Housing and Community Services Department may:
(1) Undertake and carry out studies and analyses of housing needs within the state and  ways
of meeting such needs and make the results of  such studies and analyses available to the public,
qualified housing sponsors and the private housing sector.
(2) Prepare proposals on measures it considers necessary  to address administration, housing
programs or community services programs.
(3) With the approval  of the Oregon Housing Stability Council, assess fees, charges or interest
in connection with housing programs.
(4) Encourage community organizations to  assist in initiating housing projects for persons and
families of lower income.
(5) Encourage the salvage of  usable housing scheduled for demolition or dislocation because of
highway, school, urban renewal or other public projects by  seeking authority for the public agencies
involved in such programs to use the funds provided  for the demolition or relocation of such
buildings to enable qualified housing sponsors to relocate  and rehabilitate such buildings for use by
persons and families of lower income.
(6) Encourage research and demonstration projects to  develop techniques and methods for in-
creasing the supply of adequate, decent, safe and  sanitary housing for persons and families of lower
income.
(7) Make or participate in the making of residential loans to qualified individuals  or housing
sponsors to provide for the acquisition, construction, improvement, rehabilitation  or permanent fi-
nancing of residential  housing or housing development; undertake commitments to make residential
loans; purchase and sell residential  loans at public or private sale; modify or alter such mortgages
or loans; foreclose on any such mortgage  or security interest or commence any action to protect
or enforce any right conferred upon the  department by any law, mortgage, security, agreement,
contract or other  agreement and to bid for and purchase property that is subject to such mortgage
or security interest at any foreclosure  or other sale; acquire or take possession of any such property
and complete, administer, conserve, improve and otherwise use the property  to accomplish the
department’s purposes, pay the principal and interest  on any obligations incurred in connection with
such property and dispose of  such property in such manner as the department determines necessary
to protect its interests under ORS 456.515 to 456.725 and ORS chapter 458.
(8) Unless  specifically exempted by the State Treasurer, deposit with the State Treasurer any
funds held in reserve or sinking funds under  ORS 456.515 to 456.725 and ORS chapter 458 and any
other moneys not required for immediate use or disbursement by the department, subject to  the
provisions of any agreement with holders of bonds entered into prior to October 15, 1983.
(9) Advise  and assist in the creation of any nonprofit housing corporation, consumer housing
cooperative or limited dividend housing sponsor and give approval  of the articles of incorporation
and bylaws of any such organization in carrying out ORS 456.515 to 456.725.
(10) Cooperate with and exchange  services, personnel and information with any federal, state
or local governmental agency.
(11) With the approval of the State Treasurer, contract for the services of  and consultation with
trustees, investment and financial advisors, paying agents, remarketing agents and other  profes-
sional persons or organizations in carrying out ORS 456.515 to 456.725 and ORS chapter 458.
(12) Contract for, act on or perform any  other duties that the department considers necessary
or appropriate to carry out housing programs and community services programs, including but  not
limited to contracting to provide compliance monitoring  or other administrative functions with re-
spect to housing  developments and affordable housing, whether or not the housing developments or
affordable housing receives department funding and  whether or not the housing developments or
affordable housing is located within this state. For purposes of this subsection, “affordable
housing” has the meaning given that term in ORS 456.055.
Enrolled Senate Bill 893 (SB 893-A) Page 2
(13) Purchase, service,  sell and make commitments to purchase, service and sell residential loans
to the extent permitted by ORS 456.635 and 456.640 (1) to (3).
(14) Initiate or assist appropriate state agencies, governmental bodies and public or  private
housing sponsors in the development, construction, acquisition, ownership,  leasing, rehabilitation or
management of housing to carry out the purposes of ORS 456.515  to 456.725 and ORS chapter 458
where such housing is not otherwise affordable or available in the area.
(15) Execute and record written instruments that  contain terms, including but not limited to
restrictive  covenants  or equitable servitudes, pertaining to the use and enjoyment of housing
projects. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the executed instruments shall  constitute and
create restrictive covenants affecting and running with the property according to the terms of the
instruments when recorded in the records of the county where the property is located. County clerks
shall accept the instruments for recording when presented by or on behalf of the department.
(16) Subject to the provisions of any agreement  then existing with bondholders, make available
funds by contract, grant,  loan or otherwise, including loan guarantees, insurance or other financial
leveraging techniques, from moneys made available by the department to  carry out the purposes of
ORS 456.515 to 456.725, if such moneys are not needed for the operations of the department or oth-
erwise determined by the Director  of the Housing and Community Services Department to be a
necessary or prudent reserve.
(17) [With the approval of the Oregon Housing Stability Council, ] Notwithstanding ORS 456.561,
award grants to private or public entities to support or develop programs and services that  build
on successful or innovative strategies [ that help individuals obtain and retain  housing ] to prevent
and end homelessness, and may adopt rules for implementing  such programs and services ,
including [ through] the following:
(a) Tenant education services for low-income  tenants, including Rent Guarantee Program train-
ing under ORS 456.608 (3);
(b) Fair housing training and outreach for tenants and landlords;
(c) Technological innovations and investments that help low-income individuals find and access
available rental housing  and services ; [ and]
(d) Acquisition, construction, renovation and operation of emergency  shelters and tran-
sitional housing, outreach and  attendant services, as well as supportive housing services
designed to sustain housing,  including those that support the diverse needs of those experi-
encing homelessness;
(e) Homelessness system improvements such as  capacity building resources, planning
resources, implementation and operation of advisory groups,  technical assistance resources
and investments to  improve and obtain qualitative and quantitative data about housing and
homelessness, including through direct engagement with people with lived experience of
homelessness or housing instability;
(f) Services designed to prevent evictions and homelessness,  including long term and
emergency rental assistance, legal services for those facing eviction, eviction prevention
mediation services and case management;
(g) Individualized and culturally responsive interventions designed to provide support to
specific populations of people experiencing homelessness or housing instability;
(h) Delivery of programs  and services designed to reduce poverty, including those pro-
grams and services that  are in alignment with federal resources such as the Community
Services Block Grant; and
[(d)] (i)  Other education, services or resources for  low-income tenants and prospective tenants
and for  landlords who serve low-income tenants , including landlord incentive programs to en-
courage greater access to units for low-income tenants .
SECTION 4.
 ORS 458.650 is amended to read:
458.650. (1) The Housing and Community  Services Department shall administer the Emergency
Housing Account to assist homeless  individuals and individuals who are at risk of becoming
homeless, through  means including the emergency housing assistance program and the state
Enrolled Senate Bill 893 (SB 893-A) Page 3
homeless assistance program.  Notwithstanding subsection (3)(a) of this section, the state homeless
assistance program shall serve individuals experiencing homelessness, especially  unsheltered
homelessness, without respect to income.
(2) The  Oregon Housing Stability Council shall develop a policy for the use of program funds
with the advice of:
(a) Persons who have experienced housing instability;
(b) Tribes;
(c) The Community Action Partnership of Oregon;
(d) Continuums of care, as defined in 24 C.F.R. part 578;
(e) Local governments;
(f) Nonprofit organizations;
(g) Homeless services providers;
(h) Culturally specific organizations;
(i) Housing providers;
(j) Veterans’ services organizations; and
(k) Other entities identified by the department by rule.
(3) The policy under subsection (2) of this section  shall direct that program funds shall be used:
(a) To provide to low  and very low income individuals, including but not limited to individuals
more than 65 years of age, persons with disabilities, agricultural workers and Native Americans:
(A) Emergency shelters and attendant services;
(B) Transitional housing  services designed to assist individuals to make the transition from
homelessness to permanent housing and economic independence;
(C) Supportive housing services to enable individuals to continue living in their own homes  or
to provide  in-home services for such individuals for whom suitable programs do not exist in their
geographic area;
(D) Programs that provide emergency payment of home payments, rents or utilities; or
(E) Some or all of the needs described in subparagraphs (A) to (D) of this paragraph.
(b) To align with federal strategies and resources that are available to prevent  and end
homelessness, including the requirement of providing culturally responsive services  and using
evidence-based and emerging practices  effective in ending homelessness, including practices unique
to rural communities.
(4)(a) The council shall require as a condition of awarding a grant  that the organization dem-
onstrate to the satisfaction of the [ council] department that the organization:
(A) Has the capacity to deliver any service proposed by the organization;
(B) Is a culturally  responsive organization or is engaged in a process to become a culturally
responsive organization;
(C) Engages with culturally specific organizations; and
(D) Supports local homelessness system planning efforts.
(b) Any funds granted under this section may not be used to replace existing funds. Funds
granted under this section may be used to supplement  existing funds. An organization may use funds
to support existing programs or to establish new programs.
(5) The department may expend funds from the account for:
(a) The administration of the account as provided for in the  legislatively approved budget, as
that term is defined in ORS 291.002, for the department in  support of directing a statewide policy
on homelessness that ensures use of evidence-based  and emerging practices, service equity in fund-
ing and local planning processes.
(b) The development of technical assistance and training resources  for organizations developing
and operating emergency shelters as defined in ORS 197.782 and transitional housing  accommo-
dations as described in ORS 197.746.
(6) The department shall utilize outcome-oriented contracting processes and  evidence-based and
emerging practices for account  program funds, including evidence-based and emerging practices for
serving rural communities.
Enrolled Senate Bill 893 (SB 893-A) Page 4
(7) Twenty-five percent of  moneys deposited in the account pursuant to ORS 294.187 are dedi-
cated to the emergency housing assistance program for assistance to veterans who are homeless  or
at risk of becoming homeless.
SECTION 5. This 2023 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist, and  this 2023 Act takes effect
on its passage.
Passed by Senate April 11, 2023
..................................................................................
Lori L. Brocker, Secretary of Senate
..................................................................................
Rob Wagner, President of Senate
Passed by House May 9, 2023
..................................................................................
Dan Rayfield, Speaker of House
Received by Governor:
........................M.,........................................................., 2023
Approved:
........................M.,........................................................., 2023
..................................................................................
Tina Kotek, Governor
Filed in Office of Secretary of State:
........................M.,........................................................., 2023
..................................................................................
Secretary of State
Enrolled Senate Bill 893 (SB 893-A) Page 5