1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2048
Sponsored by Representative WRIGHT (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act  stops OHA from licensing a food cart that does not have a separate licensed
kitchen for preparing food. (Flesch Readability Score: 63.8).
Prohibits the Oregon Health Authority from issuing a license to a food cart that does not have
a licensed commissary as a base of operation.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to food carts; amending ORS 624.320.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 624.320 is amended to read:
624.320. (1) A person may not operate a vending machine, warehouse,  commissary or mobile unit
without first procuring a license to do so  from the Oregon Health Authority. The operator shall post
the license in a conspicuous place in the warehouse or  commissary. The operator shall affix a card,
emblem or other  device clearly showing the name and address of the licensee and the serial number
of the license to each vending machine or mobile unit as the case may be.
(2) Application for the license shall be in writing in the form prescribed  by the authority and
shall contain the following information:
(a) Name and address of the applicant.
(b) Location of all warehouses or commissaries.
(c) Locations where supplies are kept.
(d) Locations where vending machines or mobile units are stored, repaired or renovated.
(e) Identity and form of food to be dispensed through vending machines.
(f) Number of each type of vending machine on location.
(3) The operator must keep the specific locations of the vending  machines and specific itiner-
aries of the mobile units on file at the operator’s business  office and readily available to the au-
thority. If the mobile unit is moved to a [ delegate] county other than [ a delegate ] the  county  that
licensed the mobile unit, the operator shall notify the [ local health department ] local public health
authority for the county to which the mobile unit is moved prior to operating the mobile unit within
that county.  The operator shall furnish the authority with written details of the conversion of any
vending machine to dispense products other than those for which the license was issued.
(4) The authority may not issue a license to a mobile  unit that does not have a licensed
commissary as a base of operation  to provide food, beverage, ingredients, containers and
supplies to the mobile unit.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1443