1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2517
Introduced and  printed pursuant to House Rule 12.00. Presession filed (at the request of House Interim Committee
on Education for Representative Courtney Neron)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Tells the State  Board of Education to adopt rules for the intensive program for school
districts. (Flesch Readability Score: 63.6).
Directs the State Board of Education to adopt by rule criteria by which  a school district is re-
quired to participate in an intensive program for school  districts with the highest needs or may
choose to participate in the program.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to intensive program for school districts with the highest needs; amending ORS 327.222.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 327.222 is amended to read:
327.222. (1) The  Department of Education shall establish an intensive program for school dis-
tricts with the highest needs in this state.
(2)(a) The department  shall identify and select school districts to participate in the intensive
program[. The department may not  select a public charter school under this section. ] based on criteria
identified by the State Board of Education by rule.
(b) Criteria for participation in the intensive program:
(A) Must include consideration of performance outcomes or the financial  stability of the
school district. Consideration  of performance outcomes or financial stability shall be based
on:
(i) A financial audit or progress review conducted as provided by ORS 327.201  for a re-
cipient of a grant from the Student Investment Account;
(ii) An audit report filed with the department as required by ORS 327.137;
(iii) A financial audit or performance audit initiated under ORS 327.141; or
(iv) Any other criteria identified by the board.
(B) Must include standards by which the department determines that a school district:
(i) Must participate in the intensive program; or
(ii) May choose to participate in the intensive program.
(C) May not allow a public charter school to participate in the intensive program.
[(b)] (c) A school district that [ agrees to  participate] participates in the intensive program must
participate in the program for at least four years.
(3) A school district that [ agrees to participate ] participates in the intensive program shall be
eligible for additional funding from the Statewide Education  Initiatives Account. The additional
funding shall be based on rules adopted by the State Board  of Education and shall be calculated
based on the ADMw of the school district, as calculated under ORS 327.195.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1955
HB 2517
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
(4) A school district that [ agrees to participate ] participates in the intensive program shall:
(a) Commit to regular student success plan meetings to monitor practices;
(b) Use data to track student progress;
(c) Ensure school employees receive appropriate professional development and training;
(d) Create safe and inclusive learning environments;
(e) Improve school and school district practices and structures  to support teaching and learning;
and
(f) Improve the skills of the members of the school board.
(5) For the purpose of assisting school districts participating  in the intensive program, the de-
partment shall  establish student success teams. Student success teams shall be composed of person-
nel with expertise in school and school district  improvement strategies, including the use of
differentiated instruction and inclusionary practices. A student success team  is not a government
body and is not subject to any statute or rule applicable to a public body.
(6)(a) Under the intensive program, student success teams shall:
(A) Advise and counsel school districts on how to improve performance outcomes; and
(B) Develop recommendations for meeting performance growth targets.
(b) School district boards and superintendents  of school districts participating in an intensive
program must:
(A) Accept all recommendations of the student success teams related to the use  of Student In-
vestment Account grant moneys and additional  funding received under this section. A school district
that does not accept the recommendations made under this subparagraph is not eligible  for addi-
tional funding under this section.
(B) Consider, and may accept, all recommendations of the student success teams  not described
in subparagraph (A) of this paragraph.
(c) A  school district that receives recommendations under this subsection must issue a report
that:
(A) Describes the recommendations;
(B) Identifies the recommendations that will be implemented and the  timelines for implementing
the recommendations; and
(C) Identifies the recommendations that will not be implemented and an explanation for why the
recommendations will not be implemented.
(d) The report required under paragraph (c) of this subsection must be:
(A) Made available at the school district’s main office and on the school district’s website; and
(B) Distributed to the school district community, including employees of the  school district and
families of the students of the school district.
[2]