1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2026 Regular Session
Senate Joint Resolution 201
Sponsored by  Senators PROZANSKI, FREDERICK; Senators MANNING JR, NERON MISSLIN, PHAM K, Repre-
sentatives CHOTZEN, MCDONALD (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The measure would change the personal kicker to have half the moneys used  for schools
and wildfire, if the excess revenue was  more than a certain amount. (Flesch Readability Score: 60.3).
Proposes  an  amendment to the Oregon Constitution to require a portion of surplus revenue that
would otherwise be returned to personal income taxpayers to be used for  funding public
kindergarten through grade 12 education,  community colleges and wildfire prevention and sup-
pression, if surplus revenue exceeds a certain threshold.
Refers the proposed amendment to the people for their approval or rejection at the next regular
general election.
JOINT RESOLUTION
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
PARAGRAPH 1.
 The Constitution of the State of Oregon is amended by creating a new  section
14a to be added to and made a part of Article IX, and by amending section 14, Article IX, such
sections to read:
Sec. 14.  (1) As soon as is practicable after adjournment sine die of an odd-numbered year reg-
ular session of the Legislative Assembly, the Governor shall  cause an estimate to be prepared of
revenues that will  be received by the General Fund for the biennium beginning July 1. The esti-
mated revenues from corporate  income and excise taxes shall be separately stated from the esti-
mated revenues from other General Fund sources.
(2) As soon as is practicable after the end of the biennium,  the Governor shall cause actual
collections of revenues received by the General Fund for that biennium to be  determined. The re-
venues received from corporate income and excise taxes shall be determined separately from  the
revenues received from other General Fund sources.
(3) If the revenues received by the General Fund from corporate income and excise  taxes during
the biennium exceed the amount estimated to be  received from corporate income and excise taxes
for the biennium, by two percent or more,  the total amount of the excess shall be retained in the
General Fund and  used to provide additional funding for public education, kindergarten through
twelfth grade.
(4)(a) If the revenues received from General  Fund revenue sources, exclusive of those described
in subsection (3) of this section, during the biennium exceed the amount estimated to be  received
from such sources for the biennium, by two percent or more, the  total amount of the excess shall
be returned to personal income taxpayers.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this subsection, if  the total amount of the excess
determined under paragraph (a) of  this subsection exceeds $300 million for any biennium, 50
percent of the total excess shall be returned to  personal income taxpayers, and the remain-
ing 50 percent of that excess  shall be directed to reserve accounts to be used in equal parts
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 203
SJR 201
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
solely for:
(A) Providing additional funding for public education, kindergarten through twelfth  grade
and for community colleges; and
(B) The funding of wildfire prevention and suppression.
(c) The threshold amount provided in  paragraph (b) of this subsection shall be adjusted
for inflation at the close of each biennium.
(5) The Legislative Assembly may enact laws:
(a) Establishing a tax credit, refund payment or other mechanism by  which the excess revenues
are returned to taxpayers, and establishing administrative procedures connected therewith.
(b) Allowing the excess revenues to be reduced by administrative costs  associated with return-
ing the excess revenues.
(c) Permitting a taxpayer’s share of the  excess revenues not to be returned to the taxpayer if
the taxpayer’s share is less than a de minimis amount identified by the Legislative Assembly.
(d) Permitting a taxpayer’s  share of excess revenues to be offset by any liability of the taxpayer
for which the state is authorized to undertake collection efforts.
(6)(a) Prior to the close of a biennium for which  an estimate described in subsection (1) of this
section has been made, the Legislative Assembly, by a two-thirds majority vote  of all members
elected to each House, may enact  legislation declaring an emergency and increasing the amount of
the estimate prepared pursuant to subsection (1) of this section.
(b) The prohibition against declaring an emergency in an act regulating taxation or exemption
in section 1a, Article  IX of this Constitution, does not apply to legislation enacted pursuant to this
subsection.
(7) This section does not apply:
(a) If, for a biennium or any portion of a biennium, a state tax is not imposed on or  measured
by the income of individuals.
(b) To  revenues derived from any minimum tax imposed on corporations for the privilege of
carrying on or doing business in this state that is imposed as a fixed amount and that  is nonappor-
tioned (except for changes of accounting periods).
(c) To biennia beginning before July 1, 2001.
SECTION 14a. (1) The amendment to section 14 of this Article by Senate Joint
Resolution 201 (2026) applies to biennia beginning on or after July 1, 2027.
(2) This section is repealed on June 30, 2031.
PARAGRAPH 2.
The amendment proposed by this resolution shall be submitted to  the
people for their approval or rejection  at the next regular general election held throughout
this state.
[2]