1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 798
Printed pursuant to  Senate Interim Rule 213.28 by order of the President of the Senate in conformance with pre-
session filing rules,  indicating neither advocacy nor opposition on the part of the President (at the request
of Governor Tina Kotek for Oregon Military Department)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Gives in-state college costs to certain Guard members. (Flesch Readability Score: 71.8).
Provides  out-of-state  members of the Oregon National Guard with in-state tuition and other
higher education benefits.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to in-state tuition for members of the Oregon National Guard; amending ORS 352.313.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 352.313 is amended to read:
352.313. (1) As used in this section:
(a) “Active member  of the Armed Forces of the United States” includes officers and enlisted
personnel of the Armed Forces of the United States who:
(A) Reside in this state while assigned to duty at any base,  station, shore establishment or other
facility in this state;
(B) Reside in this state while  serving as members of the crew of a ship that has an Oregon port
or shore establishment as its home port or permanent station; [ or]
(C) Reside in another state or a  foreign country and establish Oregon residency by filing Oregon
state income taxes no later than 12 months before leaving active duty ; or
(D) Reside in another state and are members of the Oregon National Guard .
(b) “Armed Forces of the United States” includes:
(A) The Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps and Coast Guard of the United States;
(B) Reserve components  of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps and Coast Guard of the
United States; and
(C) The National Guard of the United States and the Oregon National Guard.
(c) “Dependent children” includes any children of an  active member of the Armed Forces of the
United States, of an active member of the commissioned  corps of the National Oceanic and Atmo-
spheric Administration or of a  member of the Public Health Service of the United States Department
of Health and Human Services detailed by proper authority for duty with the Army  or Navy of the
United States, who:
(A) Are under 18 years of age and not married, otherwise emancipated or self-supporting; or
(B) Are under 23 years of age,  unmarried, enrolled in a full-time course of study in an institution
of higher learning and dependent on the member for over one-half of their support.
(2) Active members of the Armed Forces of the United States, active members of the commis-
sioned corps of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and members  of the Public
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 301
SB 798
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
Health Service of the  United States Department of Health and Human Services detailed by proper
authority for duty with the Army or Navy of the United States, and  their spouses and dependent
children, are considered residents of this state for the purpose of admission and  for the purpose of
determining fees and tuition to  be paid by such individuals while attending any public university
listed in ORS 352.002.
(3) The governing board of  a public university listed in ORS 352.002 may contract with the
Armed Forces of the United States to furnish educational service to active members of  the Armed
Forces of the United States.
(4) The governing board shall determine the number of such students that should be  accepted
and shall make final decisions on admission of individual applicants.
(5) Students attending the public universities under contracts with the Armed  Forces of the
United States under this section shall pay fees and tuition customarily charged Oregon students.
(6) Payments  made by the Armed Forces of the United States under such contracts shall be de-
posited in a designated  account in the same manner that fees and tuition payments for resident
students are deposited and credited.
[2]