1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2026 Regular Session
Senate Joint Resolution 203
Sponsored by Senator MANNING JR, Representatives EVANS,  ANDERSEN; Senator GOLDEN, Representatives
CHAICHI, GAMBA, NOSSE, RIEKE SMITH, WISE (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Amends  the Constitution to say that police may not wear masks and must wear ID.
(Flesch Readability Score: 78.8).
Proposes an amendment to the Oregon Constitution providing that  law enforcement officers may
not be masked and must wear certain identifying information except in specified circumstances.
Refers the proposed amendment to the people for their approval or rejection at the next regular
general election.
JOINT RESOLUTION
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
PARAGRAPH 1.
 The Constitution of the State of Oregon is amended by creating a new  section
9a to be added to and made a part of Article I, such section to read:
SECTION 9a. Secret police are prohibited. A law enforcement  officer, while performing
official duties within this state, may not be masked and  shall wear an official uniform which
conspicuously displays both the  name of the governmental agency employing the officer and
the officer’s badge number, unless the officer is engaged  in undercover operations or re-
sponding as part of a special weapons and tactics (SWAT) team.
PARAGRAPH 2. The amendment proposed by this resolution shall be submitted to  the
people for their approval or rejection  at the next regular general election held throughout
this state.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 7