1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
81st OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2022 Regular Session
House Bill 4036
Sponsored by Representatives HOY, MOORE-GREEN; Senator PATTERSON (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Provides for annual appropriation from General Fund for distribution to City  of Salem to fund
public safety services provided by city.
Declares emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to public safety services in Salem; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Legislative Assembly finds  that the high concentration of state-
owned property within the boundaries of  the City of Salem on which no taxes are assessed
means that the  city provides public safety services made necessary by the presence of, and
activities associated with, state  agencies and facilities without receiving funding from the
state for the services.
(2)(a) There is appropriated to  the Department of Revenue, as soon as practicable after
July 1 of each year, out of the General Fund, the amount of $  to be  distributed to the
City of Salem for the purpose of funding public safety services provided by the city.
(b) The amount of the appropriation under paragraph (a) of  this subsection shall increase
by three percent each year.
(c) The distribution under  this section is intended to supplement and not supplant mon-
eys budgeted by the city for public safety services.
SECTION 2. Section 1 of this 2022 Act is repealed on December 31, 2029.
SECTION 3. This 2022 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist,  and this 2022 Act takes effect
on its passage.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 126