1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2108
Sponsored by Representative WRIGHT (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Directs ODE to contract with a third party to conduct a study of  options to promote the
good use of classroom time. (Flesch Readability Score: 69.1).
Requires the Department of Education to contract with a third party  to conduct a study to de-
termine how to promote the effective use of instructional time for the purposes  of achieving positive
learning outcomes and promoting a positive classroom  learning environment. Directs the department
to submit findings to the interim committees of the Legislative Assembly related to education  not
later than September 15, 2026.
Sunsets on January 2, 2027.
Takes effect on the 91st day following adjournment sine die.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to effectively using instructional time in grades K-12; and prescribing an effective date.
Whereas we must always do what is in the best interest of our children; and
Whereas the classroom teacher is  responsible for providing effective instructional time that is
in the best interests of our children and that  is supported by school district administrators and staff;
and
Whereas effectively using instructional time is  crucial for successful school programs, positive
student outcomes, maximizing student engagement and learning, helping to meet  teaching goals and
individual student needs, developing habits of wise and productive use  of time and providing more
opportunities for learning and assessment preparation; and
Whereas recent research suggests that maximizing or extending instructional time can  play an
important role in accelerating student learning particularly for  schools with shorter school days and
school years; and
Whereas there are interruptions  from outside the classroom and not under the direct control
of the classroom teacher; and
Whereas there are  interruptions from inside the classroom and under the direct control of the
classroom teacher; and
Whereas negative interruptions by students inside the classroom can cause learning  to be lost
by the student and by other classroom students; and
Whereas every student is entitled to a public education,  and no student is entitled to disrupt the
ability of others to learn in the classroom; and
Whereas regular classroom teachers and staff are not  normally trained behavioral or mental
health professionals or counselors; and
Whereas negative interruptions and interactions with a student  may cause the student to nec-
essarily be removed  from the classroom for remediation or for the student’s safety and the safety
of other students, teachers and staff; and
Whereas there has been limited funding and support provided  to district schools for an alter-
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 3012
HB 2108
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
native student placement with trained behavioral or  mental health professionals, counselors and
supportive materials; and
Whereas there has been limited funding and support provided to  school districts for positive and
successful research-based classroom management programs and  training, funding earmarked to hire
additional trained staff or support for implementing successful research-based  and school-wide be-
havior management programs; now, therefore,
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Department of Education shall contract with a third party to  con-
duct a study to determine  how to promote the effective use of instructional time for the
purposes of achieving positive learning outcomes and promoting a positive classroom learn-
ing environment.
(2) As part of the study, the third party shall:
(a) Consider the following options to promote the goal described in subsection (1)  of this
section:
(A) Fully fund and support  successful research-based classroom behavioral programs,
including programs that provide support for students with  an individualized education pro-
gram or an education plan developed in accordance with section 504  of the Rehabilitation Act
of 1973, 29 U.S.C. 794;
(B) Employ additional trained support staff, including trained counselors  and mental and
behavioral health professionals;
(C) Provide necessary support materials; and
(D) Implement schoolwide behavior management programs as an option for all schools
to provide safety for the students, teachers and staff.
(b) Identify any state or federal laws, regulations, policies or  procedures that prevent the
effective use of instructional  time that can lead to the achievement of positive learning
outcomes and the promotion of  a positive classroom learning environment. The obstacles
must be identified through discussions with classroom  teachers, classified staff, school ad-
ministrators, students and parents and guardians  who represent five rural schools and five
urban schools that are in:
(A) Different school districts; and
(B) Each of the congressional districts of this state.
(c) Provide an estimate of the amounts that would need to  be distributed to school dis-
tricts through  the State School Fund to implement the options identified in paragraph (a)
of this subsection.
(3) The department shall submit  a report of the findings of the study in the manner
provided by ORS 192.245, and  may include recommendations for legislation, to the interim
committees of the Legislative Assembly related to education no  later than September 15,
2026.
SECTION 2.
Section 1 of this 2025 Act is repealed on January 2, 2027.
SECTION 3. This 2025 Act takes effect on the 91st day after the date on  which the 2025
regular session of the Eighty-third Legislative Assembly adjourns sine die.
[2]