1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
81st OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2022 Regular Session
House Bill 4130
Sponsored by Representative HELM, Senators GORSEK, PROZANSKI, Representatives  HUDSON, LIVELY, Senator
MANNING JR; Representatives ALONSO LEON, CAMPOS, DEXTER, HOLVEY,  KROPF, LEVY, MARSH,
MCLAIN, NERON, OWENS,  REARDON, RUIZ, SANCHEZ, SCHOUTEN, SMITH DB, SMITH G, WILDE,
WILLIAMS, WITT, Senators DEMBROW, FREDERICK, GOLDEN,  JAMA, KENNEMER, LIEBER,
PATTERSON, WAGNER (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced.
Appropriates moneys to Department of Transportation for wildlife corridor projects.
Declares emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to wildlife corridors; and declaring an emergency.
Whereas wildlife-vehicle collisions pose significant risks to the safety of  the driving public and
the survival of state wildlife; and
Whereas substantial  costs result from wildlife-vehicle collisions, including medical expenses,
vehicle damage, emergency response, road maintenance and loss of public wildlife resources; and
Whereas Oregon drivers face higher risks of animal collisions than  drivers in other west coast
states; and
Whereas a statewide survey of Oregon voters conducted for The Pew Charitable Trusts  in 2020
found that 75 percent of Oregonians support increasing funding for  the construction of wildlife
crossing structures; and
Whereas wildlife road crossing structures have proven  to increase public safety and to be ef-
fective at reducing wildlife-vehicle collisions; now, therefore,
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) In addition to and not in lieu of any other  appropriation, there is appro-
priated to the Department of Transportation,  for the biennium ending June 30, 2023, out of
the General Fund, the amount of $5,000,000 for the  purpose of funding projects that promote
safe road crossings and connectivity for wildlife as defined in  ORS 496.004. This appropriation
is available continuously until expended for the purpose specified in this section.
(2) The department shall consult with the State  Department of Fish and Wildlife when
distributing moneys appropriated under this section, and  shall take into consideration rele-
vant information, including  the Wildlife Corridor Action Plan described in ORS 496.272, the
Oregon Conservation Strategy adopted by the State  Fish and Wildlife Commission and pub-
lished by the State Department of Fish and Wildlife in September of 2006  and the Oregon
Connectivity Assessment and Mapping Project.
(3) The Department of Transportation:
(a) May distribute moneys under  this section for the full range of wildlife corridor project
needs, including but not limited to project feasibility  studies, planning, construction, retrofit
and maintenance of wildlife road crossing infrastructure, roadkill tracking and studies, ani-
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 189
HB 4130
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
mal detection systems, signage, exclusionary fencing and wildlife jump outs.
(b) Shall prioritize distributions for projects  that fill funding gaps for wildlife road
crossings and connectivity that are not otherwise  budgeted for or required under other fed-
eral or state obligations.
(c) May make distributions under  this section to assist projects with state match re-
quirements of federal grant programs relating to wildlife corridors.
SECTION 2.
This 2022 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the  public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is  declared to exist, and this 2022 Act takes effect
on its passage.
[2]