1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2662
Sponsored by Representative EVANS (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act says that some law enforcement agencies have  to have at least two officers in
patrol cars. (Flesch Readability Score: 63.6).
Directs a municipal law  enforcement agency with jurisdiction over a population of at least
350,000 to staff patrol vehicles with a minimum of two officers. Specifies an exception.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to law enforcement agencies.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) Except as provided in subsection (2) of this section,  a municipal law
enforcement agency with jurisdiction over a municipality with  a population of at least 350,000
shall staff all enclosed motor  vehicles used for patrol duties with a minimum of two law
enforcement officers.
(2)(a) A municipal law enforcement agency with jurisdiction over  a municipality with a
population of at least 350,000  may staff an enclosed motor vehicle used for patrol duties with
only one law enforcement officer if extraordinary circumstances prevent  the agency from
complying with the requirement described in subsection (1) of this section.
(b) For each instance that a  law enforcement agency is prevented from complying with
the requirement described in subsection (1) of this  section due to extraordinary circum-
stances, the agency shall provide written notice to the Department of Justice with an ex-
planation of the specific circumstances.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 3171