1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
79th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2017 Regular Session
Senate Joint Resolution 18
Sponsored by Senator FERRIOLI (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Proposes amendment to Oregon Constitution to require Legislative Assembly at regular session
held in odd-numbered year to pass bill appropriating funds for state’s system of kindergarten through
grade 12 public education before passing any bill appropriating funds for any other state agency.
Specifies that bill appropriating money to state agency in violation of section is void.
Refers proposed amendment to people for their approval or rejection at next  regular general
election.
JOINT RESOLUTION
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
PARAGRAPH 1.
 The Constitution of the State of Oregon is amended by creating a new  section
9 to be added to and made a part of Article VIII, such section to read:
SECTION 9. (1) In each regular  session held in an odd-numbered year, the Legislative
Assembly shall pass a bill that appropriates the  funds for the state’s system of kindergarten
through grade 12 public education for the biennium next following the commencement of the
regular session held  in an odd-numbered year before the Legislative Assembly passes any
other bill that appropriates funds  for any other state agency for the biennium next following
the commencement of the regular session held in an odd-numbered year.
(2) If the Governor  returns a bill passed under subsection (1) of this section with written
objections, as provided in section 15b, Article V  of this Constitution, the Legislative Assem-
bly shall either reconsider and approve the bill as provided in  section 15b, Article V of this
Constitution, or shall  pass a new bill that appropriates the funds for the state’s system of
kindergarten through grade 12 public education for the biennium next following  the com-
mencement of the regular session held in an odd-numbered year before the  Legislative As-
sembly passes any other bill that  appropriates funds for any other state agency for the
biennium next following the commencement of the regular  session held in an odd-numbered
year.
(3) A bill that appropriates funds for  a state agency that is passed in violation of sub-
section (1) or (2) of this section is void and has no effect.
(4) As used in this section,  “state agency” means any elected or appointed officer, board,
commission, department, institution, branch or other agency of the state government.
PARAGRAPH 2. The amendment proposed by this resolution shall be submitted to  the
people for their approval or rejection  at the next regular general election held throughout
this state.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1120