1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
80th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2019 Regular Session
House Bill 2641
Sponsored by Representative NATHANSON, Senator  BEYER; Representative HOLVEY, Senators MANNING JR,
PROZANSKI (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced.
Modifies  requirement  that start-up businesses that may be assisted by regional collaboration
facilitated by Oregon Business Development Department  have as purpose commercialization of
university-based or university-assisted research and increasing number, and ensuring  retention, of
such businesses.
Appropriates moneys to Oregon Business Development Department for direct distribution  pro
rata to Oregon State University Advantage  Accelerator (OSU Advantage) and Regional Accelerator
& Innovation Network (RAIN  Eugene) and requires equal match. Provides that start-up businesses
assisted with appropriated moneys must  be traded sector businesses or businesses with traded sector
potential, with stated exceptions.
Requires OSU Advantage and RAIN Eugene each to submit report to  interim legislative com-
mittees related to economic development on  or before September 15, 2020, setting forth specified
metrics related to their assistance to start-up businesses.
Declares emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to entrepreneurial ecosystem development  programs located outside Metro; creating new
provisions; amending ORS 284.751; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.  ORS 284.751 is amended to read:
284.751. (1) For [ the] purposes of  this section, “Oregon Solutions Network” means the Oregon
Solutions Network established pursuant to Executive Order 11-12 dated December 16, 2011, including
but not limited to regional advisory committees and regional solutions centers within the network.
(2) The Oregon Business Development Department shall  facilitate regional collaboration among
the University of Oregon, Oregon State University and the Oregon Solutions Network in Lane,  Linn
and Benton Counties, for  the purpose of assisting technology-based[ ,] start-up businesses in this state
[whose primary purpose is to commercialize ] that have as a purpose  the commercialization of
university-based or  university-assisted research and [ to increase ] increasing the number [ of], and
[ensure] ensuring the retention , of[ ,] such businesses in the region.
(3) The collaboration facilitated under subsection  (2) of this section shall include, but not be
limited to, the following:
(a) Providing  financial assistance to programs, entities and providers of technical business de-
velopment and creation assistance and providing support to  technology-based[ ,] start-up businesses
[whose primary purpose is  to commercialize ] that have as a purpose the commercialization of
university-based or university-assisted research.
(b) Identifying  and recruiting entrepreneurial talent, qualified investors and other sources of
capital.
(c) Acquiring, procuring, furnishing or  improving facilities in or near Lane, Linn or Benton
Counties, as identified by  the University of Oregon, Oregon State University and the Oregon Sol-
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 3095
HB 2641
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
utions Network, for the operation or support of businesses receiving assistance under  this section,
signature research centers and other  businesses, programs and entities involved in the
commercialization of university-based or university-assisted research.
(d) Establishing, connecting or expanding  support programs, directly or indirectly, that provide
assistance to technology-based[ ,] start-up businesses [ whose primary purpose is to commercialize ] that
have as a purpose  the commercialization of  university-based or university-assisted research
within and outside the region.
(4) The department may enter into  contracts and agreements with the University of Oregon,
Oregon  State  University and the Oregon Solutions Network for the purpose of implementing and
accomplishing the objectives set forth in subsection (3) of this section.
(5) The department shall adopt rules to implement the provisions of this section.
SECTION 2.
There is appropriated to the Oregon Business  Development Department, for
the biennium beginning July 1, 2019, out of the General Fund, the amount of $1,000,000 for
the purposes described in section 3 of this 2019 Act.
SECTION 3. (1) As used in this section and section 4 of this 2019 Act:
(a) “OSU Advantage” means the Oregon State University Advantage Accelerator.
(b) “RAIN Eugene” means the Regional Accelerator & Innovation Network.
(2)(a) The Oregon Business Development  Department shall distribute the moneys appro-
priated under section 2 of this 2019 Act pro rata to  OSU Advantage and RAIN Eugene, or
their successor organizations, by whatever name called, to  be used for the respective pur-
poses for which OSU Advantage and RAIN Eugene were organized.
(b) The department shall distribute the  respective shares of the moneys directly to OSU
Advantage and RAIN Eugene and not through any intermediary, including a  division within
the department.  No conditions other than those contained in this section may be imposed
on the distributions.
(3) Distributions may not be made under subsection (2) of this  section unless OSU Ad-
vantage and RAIN Eugene each match  the moneys distributable under this section with an
equal amount of funds from Oregon State University or the University of Oregon, respec-
tively, local governments, the private sector, public or private grants or any other source.
(4)(a) Start-up businesses assisted by OSU Advantage and RAIN  Eugene with moneys
distributed under this section must be traded  sector businesses or businesses that have the
potential to become traded sector businesses.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this subsection, a nontraded sector business may
be admitted to  a class, or allowed to use space or services, provided by OSU Advantage or
RAIN Eugene, if necessary to  fill a class or a rentable space or to make provision of the
services economically feasible.
SECTION 4.
(1) On or before September 15, 2020,  OSU Advantage and RAIN Eugene, or
their successor organizations,  by whatever name called, shall each submit a report in the
manner provided in ORS  192.245 to the interim committees of the Legislative Assembly re-
lated to economic development.
(2) In the reports required under this section, OSU Advantage and  RAIN Eugene shall
each briefly set forth:
(a) The number of traded sector  start-up businesses, nontraded sector start-up busi-
nesses and start-up businesses that have the potential  to become traded sector businesses,
separately stated, that OSU Advantage or RAIN Eugene has assisted;
[2]
HB 2641
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
(b) The nature of the assistance provided,  including but not limited to funding, classes
or other forms of training, space and personal services;
(c) Business  funding raised and the number of jobs created by start-up businesses after
completion of training by OSU Advantage or RAIN Eugene;
(d) Industry  sectors represented by the start-up businesses assisted by OSU Advantage
or RAIN Eugene; and
(e) Any other metric OSU Advantage or RAIN  Eugene considers important to be included
in the report.
SECTION 5. This 2019 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist,  and this 2019 Act takes effect
on its passage.
[3]