1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2796
Sponsored by Representative NELSON; Senator MANNING JR (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Makes a hospital or hospital system  that is in this state make public certain financial
data. Requires the data to be updated once a  year. Allows the OHA to impose penalties for failure
to comply with the law. (Flesch Readability Score: 62.6).
Requires a hospital or hospital system in this state to make publicly available  certain financial
data.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to health care.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
Section 2 of this 2025 Act is added to and made a part of ORS chapter 442.
SECTION 2. (1) As used in this section, “hospital system” means:
(a) A parent corporation of  one or more hospitals and any entity affiliated with the par-
ent corporation through ownership, governance, control or membership; or
(b) A hospital and any entity affiliated with the hospital through ownership, governance,
control or membership.
(2) A hospital licensed in this state or a hospital system operating in  this state shall
make publicly available on the hospital’s or hospital system’s website the following informa-
tion for the preceding calendar year, updated annually:
(a) Income received for patient care broken out by:
(A) The classification of the care received; and
(B) The type of payer, such as patients, insurers or other third parties.
(b) Expenses, including salary and benefit information for each classification of employee
and for individual executives.
(c) Investments and investment returns broken out by:
(A) Asset class; and
(B) Associated investment prospectuses or asset management plans.
(d) Trusts or assets held for future use, including real  estate and any associated asset
management plans.
(3) If a hospital or hospital system does not have a website, the  information listed in
subsection (2)  of this section must be made available in hard copy form in each reception
area of the hospital or hospital system.
(4) The Oregon Health Authority shall  adopt rules necessary to carry out the provisions
of this section, including but not limited to:
(a) Prescribing definitions for the classifications  of care, payer types and employees and
prescribing the trusts or assets held for future use and other terms used  in subsection (2)
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1842
HB 2796
1
2
3
4
of this section; and
(b) Civil penalties that may be imposed in accordance with ORS 183.745 for a hospital’s
or a hospital system’s failure to comply with the requirements of this section.
[2]