1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
79th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2017 Regular Session
House Bill 2908
Sponsored by Representatives PILUSO, PARRISH; Representatives EVANS,  HELM, LIVELY, Senators MANNING
JR, MONNES ANDERSON
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced.
Creates position of Veteran Volunteer Coordinator  in Department of Veterans’ Affairs and
specifies responsibilities.
Requires report to Legislative Assembly on or before September 15, 2020.
Appropriates moneys from General Fund to department to establish position.
Declares emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to volunteer coordinator services for veterans; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
The position of Veteran Volunteer Coordinator is created in the Department
of Veterans’ Affairs. The responsibilities  of the coordinator include, but are not limited to,
all of the following:
(1) Developing and establishing a statewide Veterans Volunteer Program  and establishing
policies and procedures for the program;
(2) Developing and implementing a training program and training materials for the pro-
gram;
(3) Managing volunteer recruitment and screening and coordinating the  services of the
veteran volunteers;
(4) Creating electronic records, including but not limited to, records that track volunteer
activities and veterans who have been contacted by volunteers; and
(5) Educating and coordinating volunteers and partners, including but not limited to care
facilities, veterans’ service officers, the Department of Human Services, offices  of the Aging
and Disability Resource Connection and others regarding the  needs of aging veterans and the
needs of the veteran volunteers.
SECTION 2. No later than September 15, 2020,  the Department of Veterans’ Affairs shall
prepare and submit a report to the  standing and interim committees of the Legislative As-
sembly that have  authority over the subject area of veterans’ affairs regarding the imple-
mentation and status of the  position of Veteran Volunteer Coordinator and the Veterans
Volunteer Program. The report shall include, at a minimum, information  regarding the fol-
lowing:
(1) The impact of the program on veterans served;
(2) The type of assistance provided by the coordinator and veteran volunteers;
(3) Data on volunteer activities and volunteer hours;
(4) Recommendations for the improvement and  expansion of the services provided by the
coordinator; and
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 3708
HB 2908
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
(5) Recommendations for legislation.
SECTION 3.
In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there  is appropri-
ated to the Department of Veterans’ Affairs, for the biennium beginning July 1,  2017, out of
the General Fund, the amount of $ , which may be expended for the purpose of im-
plementing and administering the position of Veteran Volunteer Coordinator.
SECTION 4. This 2017 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist,  and this 2017 Act takes effect
on its passage.
[2]