1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2792
Sponsored by Representative NELSON, Senator MANNING JR; Representative MUNOZ (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Makes  a hospital report on what it spends to replace employees during a strike or
lockout. (Flesch Readability Score: 63.6).
Requires a hospital to report the amount  the hospital spends for individuals to replace employ-
ees involved in a strike or lockout.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to the amount  a hospital spends for individuals to replace employees during a labor dispute.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) As used in this section:
(a) “Duration of a strike or lockout” means a  period of time beginning one month before
initiation of a strike or lockout and ending one month after termination of the strike  or
lockout.
(b) “Employee” means any individual who performs services for wages or salary.
(c) “Lockout” means any refusal by an employer to permit employees to work as  a result
of a dispute with such employees  affecting wages, hours or other terms or conditions of their
employment.
(d) “Pay” means to pay wages,  salary, bonuses, benefits, fringe benefits or equity-based
compensation.
(e) “Strike” means any concerted act of employees in  a lawful refusal under applicable
state or federal law to perform work or services for an employer.
(2) A hospital licensed under ORS  441.025 shall report to the Bureau of Labor and In-
dustries and the Oregon Health Authority the amount of money the hospital spends  to re-
cruit, solicit and  advertise and pay for individuals to replace employees involved in a strike
or lockout, for the duration of the strike or lockout.
(3) A hospital shall provide an updated report required under  subsection (2) of this sec-
tion every 30 days for the duration of a strike or lockout and  provide a final report within
30 days after the end of the strike or lockout.
(4) A hospital shall report  the information described in subsection (2) of this section in
the form and manner prescribed by the Bureau of Labor and Industries.NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1921