1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Concurrent Resolution 6
Sponsored by Representative EVANS; Representative CHAICHI (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Makes One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest  the  official film of Oregon. (Flesch Readability
Score:  67.7).
Designates One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest  (1975) as the official film of Oregon.
CONCURRENT RESOLUTION
Whereas the 1975 film One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest  was adapted for the screen by Lawrence
Hauben and Bo Goldman from the book by acclaimed novelist and dyed-in-the-wool Oregonian Ken
Kesey;  and
Whereas the film won countless awards for its groundbreaking, humanistic portrayal  of persons
with mental illness, including Academy Awards for Best Picture, Best Director for Milos Forman,
Best Actor for Jack Nicholson, Best  Actress for Louise Fletcher, and Best Screenplay Adapted From
Other Material for Hauben and Goldman; and
Whereas the film was shot almost entirely on location  at the Oregon State Hospital in Salem;
and
Whereas patients and staff at the Oregon State Hospital played active roles as on-screen per-
formers and members of the film’s production crew, lending truth to the  film’s messages of inclusion;
and
Whereas the film’s  spirited second-act fishing scene showcased not only the talents of up-and-
coming character actors including Danny  DeVito, Sydney Lassick and Christopher Lloyd, but also
the coastal charms of Oregon’s Depoe Bay; and
Whereas the film’s story was  based on Kesey’s experiences as a night aide in the psychiatric
ward of the Menlo Park Veteran’s Hospital in California, where  he came to empathize with persons
with mental illness, who he believed were misunderstood outcasts whom society had failed; and
Whereas Kesey’s portrayal of institutional  abuse within state-run psychiatric wards helped to
usher in a boldly compassionate new era of community mental health care; and
Whereas in the nearly half-century  since the film’s release, Jack Nicholson’s character Randle
“R.P.” McMurphy has endured as an anti-authoritarian folk hero whose  outside-the-box thinking and
vehement rejection of the status  quo exemplifies the irrepressible spirit of the people of the State
of Oregon; and
Whereas the film, like Oregon, embraces the downtrodden,  the misjudged, and all who have
failed to thrive within the bounds of conventional society; and
Whereas the film celebrates each person’s right to dignity, to joy, and  to the full experience of
human life; now, therefore,
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2777
HCR 6
1
2
3
That we, the members of the Eighty-third Legislative Assembly, designate One Flew Over the
Cuckoo’s Nest  as the official film of the State of Oregon.
[2]