81st OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2021 Regular Session
Enrolled
House Bill 3369
Sponsored by  Representatives NOSSE, PRUSAK, WILDE; Representatives ALONSO LEON,
CAMPOS, DEXTER, SCHOUTEN, Senator MANNING JR
CHAPTER .................................................
AN ACT
Relating to marijuana; creating  new provisions; and amending ORS 475B.791, 475B.797, 475B.913,
475B.916 and 475B.952.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1. Section 2 of this 2021 Act is added to and made a part of ORS  475B.785 to
475B.949.
SECTION 2. A nurse licensed under ORS 678.040 to 678.101 may discuss the medical use
of marijuana with a person with whom the nurse has a patient-provider relationship.
SECTION 3.  ORS 475B.791 is amended to read:
475B.791. As used in ORS 475B.785 to 475B.949:
(1) “Attending [ physician] provider” means [ a physician licensed under ORS chapter 677 ] one
of the following health care providers  who has primary responsibility for the care and  treatment
of a person diagnosed with a debilitating medical condition[ .]:
(a) A physician licensed under ORS chapter 677;
(b) A physician assistant licensed under ORS 677.505 to 677.525;
(c) A nurse practitioner licensed under ORS 678.375 to 678.390;
(d) A clinical nurse specialist licensed under ORS 678.370 and 678.372;
(e) A certified registered nurse anesthetist as defined in ORS 678.245; or
(f) A naturopathic physician licensed under ORS chapter 685.
(2) “Cannabinoid” means any of the chemical compounds that are the  active constituents of
marijuana.
(3) “Cannabinoid concentrate” means a  substance obtained by separating cannabinoids from
marijuana by:
(a) A mechanical extraction process;
(b) A  chemical extraction process using a nonhydrocarbon-based solvent, such as vegetable
glycerin, vegetable oils, animal fats, isopropyl alcohol or ethanol;
(c) A chemical extraction process using the hydrocarbon-based solvent  carbon dioxide, provided
that the process does not involve the use of high heat or pressure; or
(d) Any other process identified  by the Oregon Health Authority, in consultation with the
Oregon Liquor Control Commission, by rule.
(4) “Cannabinoid edible” means food or  potable liquid into which a cannabinoid concentrate,
cannabinoid extract or dried leaves or flowers of marijuana have been incorporated.
(5) “Cannabinoid extract”  means a substance obtained by separating cannabinoids from
marijuana by:
Enrolled House Bill 3369 (HB 3369-A) Page 1
(a) A  chemical extraction process using a hydrocarbon-based solvent, such as butane, hexane
or propane;
(b) A chemical extraction process using the  hydrocarbon-based solvent carbon dioxide, if the
process uses high heat or pressure; or
(c) Any other process identified by the Oregon Health  Authority, in consultation with the
Oregon Liquor Control Commission, by rule.
(6) “Debilitating medical condition” means:
(a) Cancer, glaucoma, a  degenerative or pervasive neurological condition, positive status for
human immunodeficiency virus or acquired immune deficiency syndrome,  or a side effect related to
the treatment of those medical conditions;
(b) A medical condition or treatment  for a medical condition that produces, for a specific pa-
tient, one or more of the following:
(A) Cachexia;
(B) Severe pain;
(C) Severe nausea;
(D) Seizures, including seizures caused by epilepsy; or
(E) Persistent muscle spasms, including spasms caused by multiple sclerosis;
(c) Post-traumatic stress disorder; or
(d) Any other  medical condition or side effect related to the treatment of a medical condition
adopted by the Oregon Health Authority by rule or  approved by the authority pursuant to a petition
filed under ORS 475B.946.
(7)(a) “Delivery” has the meaning given that term in ORS 475.005.
(b) “Delivery” does not include transfer of marijuana by a registry  identification cardholder to
another registry identification cardholder if no consideration is paid for the transfer.
(8)(a) “Designated primary caregiver” means an individual:
(A) Who is 18 years of age or older;
(B) Who has significant responsibility for managing the well-being of a  person who has been
diagnosed with a debilitating medical condition; and
(C) Who is  designated as the person responsible for managing the well-being of a person who
has been diagnosed with a debilitating medical condition on that person’s application for a registry
identification card or in other written notification submitted to the authority.
(b) “Designated primary caregiver” does not include a person’s attending [ physician] provider.
(9) “High heat” means a temperature exceeding 180 degrees.
(10) “Immature marijuana plant” means a marijuana plant that is not flowering.
(11)(a) “Marijuana” means the plant Cannabis family Cannabaceae,  any part of the plant
Cannabis family Cannabaceae and the seeds of the plant Cannabis family Cannabaceae.
(b) “Marijuana” does not include:
(A) Industrial hemp, as defined in ORS 571.269; or
(B) Prescription drugs, as that term is defined in ORS 689.005, including  those containing one
or more cannabinoids,  that are approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration and
dispensed by a pharmacy, as defined in ORS 689.005.
(12) “Marijuana grow site”  means a location registered under ORS 475B.810 where marijuana
is produced for use by a registry identification cardholder.
(13) “Marijuana processing site”  means a marijuana processing site registered under ORS
475B.840 or a  site for which an applicant has submitted an application for registration under ORS
475B.840.
(14) “Mature  marijuana plant” means a marijuana plant that is not an immature marijuana
plant.
(15)(a) “Medical cannabinoid product” means a cannabinoid edible and  any other product in-
tended for human consumption or use, including a product intended  to be applied to a person’s skin
or hair, that contains cannabinoids or dried leaves or flowers of marijuana.
(b) “Medical cannabinoid product” does not include:
Enrolled House Bill 3369 (HB 3369-A) Page 2
(A) Usable marijuana by itself;
(B) A cannabinoid concentrate by itself;
(C) A cannabinoid extract by itself; or
(D) Industrial hemp, as defined in ORS 571.269.
(16) “Medical marijuana  dispensary” means a medical marijuana dispensary registered under
ORS 475B.858 or a site for which an applicant has submitted an application for  registration under
ORS 475B.858.
(17) “Medical use of marijuana” means the production, processing,  possession, delivery or ad-
ministration of marijuana, or  use of paraphernalia used to administer marijuana, to mitigate the
symptoms or effects of a debilitating medical condition.
(18) “Person designated to  produce marijuana by a registry identification cardholder” means a
person designated to produce marijuana by a registry identification  cardholder under ORS 475B.810
who produces marijuana for a registry identification cardholder at an address other than the address
where the registry identification cardholder resides or  at an address where more than 12 mature
marijuana plants are produced.
(19) “Process” means the compounding or conversion of  marijuana into medical cannabinoid
products, cannabinoid concentrates or cannabinoid extracts.
(20) “Production” means:
(a) Planting, cultivating, growing, trimming or harvesting marijuana; or
(b) Drying marijuana leaves or flowers.
(21) “Registry identification card” means a document issued by the  Oregon Health Authority
under ORS 475B.797  that identifies a person authorized to engage in the medical use of marijuana
and, if the person has a designated primary caregiver under  ORS 475B.804, the person’s designated
primary caregiver.
(22) “Registry identification cardholder” means  a person to whom a registry identification card
has been issued under ORS 475B.797.
(23)(a) “Usable marijuana” means the dried leaves and flowers of marijuana.
(b) “Usable marijuana” does not include:
(A) The seeds, stalks and roots of marijuana; or
(B) Waste material that is a by-product of producing marijuana.
(24) “Written documentation” means a statement signed by the attending  [ physician] provider
of a person diagnosed with a debilitating medical condition or copies  of the person’s relevant med-
ical records.
SECTION 4.
 ORS 475B.797 is amended to read:
475B.797. (1) The Oregon Health Authority shall establish a  program for the issuance of registry
identification cards to applicants who meet the requirements of this section.
(2) The authority shall issue a registry identification card to  an applicant who is 18 years of age
or older if  the applicant pays a fee in an amount established by the authority by rule and submits
to the authority an application containing the following information:
(a) Written documentation from the applicant’s attending [ physician] provider stating that the
attending [ physician] provider has  diagnosed the applicant as having a debilitating medical condi-
tion and that the medical use of  marijuana may mitigate the symptoms or effects of the applicant’s
debilitating medical condition;
(b) The name, address and date of birth of the applicant;
(c) The name, address and telephone number of the applicant’s attending [ physician] provider;
(d) Proof of residency, submitted in a form required by the authority by rule;
(e) The name and address of the applicant’s designated primary caregiver, if the applicant  is
designating a primary caregiver under ORS 475B.804; and
(f) The information described in ORS 475B.810 (2), if the applicant  is applying to produce
marijuana or designate another person under ORS 475B.810 to produce marijuana.
(3)(a) The authority shall issue a registry identification card to  an applicant who is under 18
years of age if:
Enrolled House Bill 3369 (HB 3369-A) Page 3
(A) The applicant pays the fee  and submits the application described in subsection (2) of this
section; and
(B) The custodial parent or legal guardian who is responsible for the health  care decisions of
the applicant signs and submits to the authority a written statement that:
(i) The  applicant’s attending [ physician] provider has explained to the applicant and to the
custodial parent or legal guardian the possible risks and benefits of the medical use of marijuana;
(ii) The custodial parent or legal guardian consents to  the medical use of marijuana by the ap-
plicant;
(iii) The custodial parent or legal  guardian agrees to serve as the applicant’s designated primary
caregiver; and
(iv) The custodial parent or legal guardian agrees to control the acquisition, dosage and  fre-
quency of the medical use of marijuana by the applicant.
(b) An  applicant who is under 18 years of age may not apply to produce marijuana under sub-
section (2)(f) of this section.
(4) The authority shall:
(a) On the date on which  the authority receives an application described in subsection (2) of this
section, issue a receipt to the applicant verifying that the authority received  an application under
subsection (2) or (3) of this section; and
(b) Approve or deny an  application received under subsection (2) or (3) of this section within
30 days after receiving the application.
(5)(a) If the authority approves an application, the authority shall issue a serially  numbered
registry identification card to the applicant within five days after approving the  application. The
registry identification card must include the following information:
(A) The registry identification cardholder’s name, address and date of birth;
(B) The issuance date and expiration date of the registry identification card;
(C) If the registry identification cardholder designated a primary caregiver under ORS  475B.804,
the name and address of the registry identification cardholder’s designated primary caregiver; and
(D) Any other information required by the authority by rule.
(b) If the registry identification  cardholder designated a primary caregiver under ORS 475B.804,
the authority shall issue an  identification card to the designated primary caregiver. The identifica-
tion card must contain the information required by paragraph (a) of this subsection.
(6) A registry identification cardholder shall:
(a) In a form and manner prescribed  by the authority, notify the authority of any change con-
cerning the registry identification cardholder’s:
(A) Name, address or attending [ physician] provider;
(B) Designated primary caregiver, including the designation of a primary caregiver made at a
time other than at the time of applying for or renewing a registry identification card; or
(C) Person responsible for a marijuana grow site,  including the designation of a person respon-
sible for  a marijuana grow site made at a time other than at the time of applying for or renewing
a registry identification card.
(b) Annually renew the registry identification card by paying a fee in  an amount established by
the authority by rule and  submitting to the authority an application that contains the following in-
formation:
(A) Updated written documentation from the registry identification cardholder’s  attending [ phy-
sician] provider stating that the registry identification cardholder still  has a debilitating medical
condition and that  the medical use of marijuana may mitigate the symptoms or effects of the registry
identification cardholder’s debilitating medical condition;
(B) The information described in subsection (2)(b) to (f) of this section; and
(C) If the registry identification cardholder is under 18 years of age,  a statement signed by the
custodial parent or legal guardian of the  registry identification cardholder that meets the require-
ments of subsection (3) of this section.
(7) The authority shall:
Enrolled House Bill 3369 (HB 3369-A) Page 4
(a) On the date on which  the authority receives an application described in subsection (2) of this
section, issue a receipt to the applicant verifying that the authority received  an application under
subsection (6)(b) of this section; and
(b) Approve or deny  an application received under subsection (6)(b) of this section within 30
days after receiving the application.
(8)(a) If the registry identification cardholder’s attending  [ physician] provider determines that
the registry identification cardholder no longer has a debilitating medical condition, or determines
that the medical use of  marijuana is contraindicated for the registry identification cardholder’s de-
bilitating medical condition, the registry identification cardholder shall return  the registry identifi-
cation card to the authority within 30 calendar days after receiving notice of the determination.
(b) If, because of  circumstances beyond the control of the registry identification cardholder, a
registry identification cardholder is unable to obtain a  second medical opinion about the registry
identification cardholder’s continuing eligibility for the medical use of marijuana before having to
return the registry identification card to the authority, the authority  may grant the registry iden-
tification cardholder additional time to obtain a second medical opinion.
(9)(a) The authority may deny an application for a registry  identification card or an application
to renew a registry identification card, or may suspend or revoke a registry identification card, if:
(A) The applicant or registry identification  cardholder does not provide the information required
by this section;
(B) The authority determines that the  applicant or registry identification cardholder provided
false information; or
(C) The authority determines that the applicant or  registry identification cardholder violated a
provision of ORS 475B.785 to 475B.949 or a rule adopted under ORS 475B.785 to 475B.949.
(b) If  a registry identification card is revoked, any associated identification card issued under
subsection (5)(b) of this section, or marijuana grow site registration card  issued under ORS 475B.810
(6), shall also be revoked.
(c) A person whose application is denied, or whose registry identification card is  revoked, under
this subsection may not reapply for a registry identification card for  six months from the date of the
denial or revocation unless otherwise authorized by the authority.
(10)(a) The authority may deny a designation of a primary caregiver made  under ORS 475B.804,
or suspend or revoke an associated identification  card issued under subsection (5)(b) of this section,
if the authority determines that the designee or the registry identification  cardholder violated a
provision of ORS 475B.785 to 475B.949 or a rule adopted under ORS 475B.785 to 475B.949.
(b) A person whose designation has  been denied, or whose identification card has been revoked,
under this subsection may not be designated as a primary caregiver under ORS  475B.804 for six
months from the date of the denial or revocation unless otherwise authorized by the authority.
(11)(a) Notwithstanding subsection (2) or (6)(b) of  this section, if an applicant for a registry
identification card, or a registry identification cardholder applying for renewal of a  registry iden-
tification card, submits to the authority proof of having served in the Armed Forces of the United
States, the authority may not impose a fee that is greater than $20 for the issuance or renewal of
the registry identification card.
(b) Notwithstanding  subsection (6)(b)(A) of this section, the requirement that a registry identifi-
cation cardholder include in the application to renew a registry identification card updated  written
documentation from the cardholder’s attending [ physician] provider regarding the cardholder’s  con-
tinuing debilitating medical condition does not apply to a service-disabled veteran who:
(A) Has been assigned a total  and permanent disability rating for compensation that rates the
veteran as  unable to secure or follow a substantially gainful occupation as a result of service-
connected disabilities as described in 38 C.F.R. 4.16; or
(B) Has a United States Department  of Veterans Affairs total disability rating of 100 percent
as a result of an injury  or illness that the veteran incurred, or that was aggravated, during active
military service and who received a discharge or release under other than dishonorable conditions.
Enrolled House Bill 3369 (HB 3369-A) Page 5
(12) For any purpose described in ORS 475B.785 to 475B.949,  including exemption from criminal
liability under ORS 475B.907, a receipt issued  by the authority verifying that an application has
been submitted to the authority under subsection (2), (3) or (6)(b) of this section has the same legal
effect as a  registry identification card for 30 days following the date on which the receipt was issued
to the applicant.
SECTION 5.
 ORS 475B.913 is amended to read:
475B.913. (1) Except as provided  in ORS 475B.910, a person has an affirmative defense to a
criminal charge of possession, delivery or manufacture of marijuana, or any other  criminal offense
in which possession, delivery  or manufacture of marijuana is an element, if the person charged with
the offense:
(a) Was diagnosed with a debilitating medical  condition within 12 months of the date on which
the person was  arrested and was advised by the person’s attending [ physician] provider that the
medical use of marijuana may mitigate the symptoms or effects of that debilitating  medical condi-
tion;
(b) Is engaged in the medical use of marijuana; and
(c) Possesses,  delivers or manufactures marijuana only in quantities permitted under ORS
475B.831.
(2) A person does not need to lawfully  possess a registry identification card to assert the affir-
mative defense established in this section.
(3) A person engaged in the medical use of marijuana who claims that marijuana provides med-
ically necessary benefits and who is charged with a crime pertaining to the  use of marijuana is not
precluded from presenting a defense of choice of evils, as set forth in ORS 161.200, or  from pre-
senting evidence supporting the necessity of marijuana  for treatment of a specific disease or medical
condition, provided that:
(a) The person possesses, delivers or manufactures  marijuana only as permitted under ORS
475B.831 (1); and
(b) The person has taken a substantial step toward complying with the  provisions of ORS
475B.785 to 475B.949.
(4) A defendant proposing to use the affirmative defense established in this section in  a criminal
action  shall,  not less than five days before the trial of the cause, file and serve upon the district
attorney a written notice of the intention to assert the  affirmative defense. The notice must specif-
ically state the reasons why the defendant is  entitled to assert the affirmative defense and the fac-
tual basis for the affirmative defense. If the defendant fails  to file and serve the notice, the
defendant is not permitted to assert the affirmative defense at  the trial of the cause unless the court
orders, for good cause, otherwise.
SECTION 6.
 ORS 475B.916 is amended to read:
475B.916. The Oregon Board of Naturopathic Medicine,  Oregon Medical Board and Oregon
State Board of Nursing  may not impose  a civil penalty or take other disciplinary action against
an attending [ physician] provider for:
(1) Advising a person diagnosed as  having a debilitating medical condition by the attending
[physician] provider or another physician licensed under ORS  chapter 677 , physician assistant li-
censed under ORS 677.505 to 677.525, nurse practitioner licensed under ORS 678.375 to 678.390,
clinical nurse specialist licensed  under ORS 678.370 and 678.372, certified registered nurse
anesthetist as defined in ORS 678.245  or naturopathic physician licensed under ORS chapter
685 about the risks and benefits associated  with the medical use of marijuana or that the medical
use of marijuana may  mitigate the symptoms or effects of the person’s debilitating medical condition,
provided that the advice is based on  the attending [ physician’s] provider’s personal assessment of
the person’s medical history and current medical condition; or
(2) Providing the written documentation  necessary for issuance or renewal of a registry iden-
tification card under ORS 475B.797, provided that the written  documentation is based on the at-
tending [ physician’s] provider’s personal  assessment of the person’s medical history and current
Enrolled House Bill 3369 (HB 3369-A) Page 6
medical condition and the attending  [physician] provider has discussed with the person the potential
risks and benefits associated with the medical use of marijuana.
SECTION 7.  ORS 475B.952 is amended to read:
475B.952. (1) The  Oregon Cannabis Commission is established within the Oregon Health Au-
thority. The commission consists of:
(a) The Public Health Officer or the Public Health Officer’s designee; and
(b) Eight members appointed by the Governor as follows:
(A) A registry identification cardholder, as defined in ORS 475B.791;
(B) A person designated to produce marijuana by a registry identification cardholder, as defined
in ORS 475B.791;
(C) An attending [ physician] provider, as defined in ORS 475B.791;
(D) A person representing the Oregon Health Authority;
(E) A person representing the Oregon Liquor Control Commission;
(F) A local health officer, as described in ORS 431.418;
(G) A law enforcement officer; and
(H) A person knowledgeable about research proposal grant protocols.
(2) The term of office of each member of the  commission is four years, but a member serves at
the pleasure of the Governor. Before the expiration of  the term of a member, the Governor shall
appoint a successor whose term begins on January 1  of the following year. A member is eligible for
reappointment. If there is a vacancy for any cause, the Governor shall make an  appointment to be-
come immediately effective for the unexpired term.
(3) The appointment of each member of  the commission is subject to confirmation by the Senate
in the manner prescribed in ORS 171.562 and 171.565.
(4) Members of the commission are not entitled to  compensation, but may be reimbursed for
actual and necessary travel and other expenses incurred by  them in the performance of their official
duties in the manner and amounts provided for in ORS 292.495.
Passed by House April 16, 2021
..................................................................................
Timothy G. Sekerak, Chief Clerk of House
..................................................................................
Tina Kotek, Speaker of House
Passed by Senate May 19, 2021
..................................................................................
Peter Courtney, President of Senate
Received by Governor:
........................M.,........................................................., 2021
Approved:
........................M.,........................................................., 2021
..................................................................................
Kate Brown, Governor
Filed in Office of Secretary of State:
........................M.,........................................................., 2021
..................................................................................
Shemia Fagan, Secretary of State
Enrolled House Bill 3369 (HB 3369-A) Page 7