1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2395
Sponsored by Representative LEVY B;  Representatives BOICE, MANNIX, OSBORNE, SMITH G, WRIGHT, Senator
NASH (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Lets a rural county ask ODVA for  money to help the county keep its veteran services.
(Flesch Readability Score: 63.6).
Requires the Department of Veterans’ Affairs  to distribute moneys for county veterans’ service
officers to counties that have a population of  less than 30,000 and are or will be unable to maintain
operations of county veterans’ service officers due to budget decreases.
Requires counties to apply for moneys. Establishes requirements for application.
Declares an emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to county veterans’ service officers; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) Notwithstanding the distribution formula adopted under ORS 406.454, the
Department of Veterans’ Affairs shall, from amounts  allocated to the Veterans’ Department
of Veterans’ Affairs Dedicated Lottery Fund, distribute moneys to qualified  counties for the
purpose of maintaining or reinstating operations in those counties  of county veterans’ ser-
vice officers appointed under ORS 408.410.
(2) The department may not distribute moneys under subsection  (1) of this section unless
a county submits an application for the moneys. The application must include:
(a) A certification that the county meets the definition  of “qualified county” under this
section;
(b) A statement of  the amount necessary to maintain or reinstate the county veterans’
service officers program, including supporting documentation; and
(c) A plan for the expenditure of the requested moneys.
(3) The department may prescribe by rule the form of the application.
(4) The department shall establish by  rule a process for determining the distribution of
moneys under this section. The process must have the goal of  maintaining or reinstating
access to county veterans’ service officers for the maximum number of individuals.
(5) As used in this section, “qualified county” means a county in this state that:
(a) Has a population of less than 30,000; and
(b) Is unable to maintain, or  imminently will become unable to maintain, the operations
of county veterans’ service officers due to decreases in the overall budget of the county.
SECTION 2.
This 2025 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist,  and this 2025 Act takes effect
on its passage.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 997