1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2885
Sponsored by Representative EVANS (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act tells state agencies to  make an electronic system to manage emergency volun-
teers in this state. The Act puts ODEM in charge of maintaining the  system. The Act tells ODEM
to start a workgroup about volunteers. (Flesch Readability Score: 61.7).
Directs the Higher  Education Coordinating Commission, Oregon Department of Emergency
Management, Oregon Health Authority  and Department of Public Safety Standards and Training to
collaboratively plan and implement the creation of an interoperative, centralized electronic  system
to manage information about persons in Oregon  who are available to serve as volunteers in case
of emergency.
Directs the Oregon Department of Emergency Management to administer and maintain the  sys-
tem, conduct outreach and training regarding the system, coordinate a workgroup for periodic  re-
view of the system and coordinate a workgroup to develop recommendations  regarding statewide
volunteerism.
Directs the Higher Education Coordinating Commission to  develop policies and procedures to
incorporate the system into the activities and duties of the OregonServes Commission.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to emergency volunteers.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Higher Education Coordinating Commission, the Oregon Department
of Emergency Management, the Oregon Health Authority  and the Department of Public
Safety Standards and Training shall collaboratively plan and implement the creation of an
interoperative, centralized electronic system to manage  information about persons in Oregon
who are available to serve as volunteers in case of emergency.
(2) The system created under this section must, at a minimum, enable users to:
(a) Track credentials, training and licenses of volunteers;
(b) Conduct background checks;
(c) Accept monetary donations;
(d) Assign volunteer roles and responsibilities based on skills, licenses and credentials;
(e) Engage volunteers in training and exercise opportunities;
(f) Organize volunteers into user groups based on credentials;
(g) Mobilize volunteers through text messages and electronic mail;
(h) Post and promote disaster volunteer opportunities;
(i) Conduct real-time headcounts to view spaces filled and those still available;
(j) Track volunteer hours in the field;
(k) Send reminders to volunteers via mobile devices;
(L) Offer location-based check-in systems to volunteers via mobile devices;
(m) Verify hours with a built-in validation system;
(n) Organize multiday service projects for away teams;
(o) View shift-based or ongoing sustainable long-term recovery projects;
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1809
HB 2885
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
(p) Generate volunteer resumes and reports designed to measure impact and increase
engagement; and
(q) Run exportable reports for financial reporting, federal reimbursements and grants.
(3) The  system created under this section must be made available for use by public and
private entities active in emergency preparedness, response and recovery.
(4) The Oregon Department of Emergency Management shall coordinate the efforts of the
state agencies listed in subsection (1) of this section to  create the system. The department
shall use, as a starting point for developing  the system, the volunteer management system
licensed for use by the OregonServes Commission.
(5) The department, after the system is implemented, shall:
(a) Administer and maintain the system;
(b) Conduct inclusive outreach to public and private entities  active in emergency
preparedness, response and recovery to provide information and training regarding the  sys-
tem, including training on management of unaffiliated volunteers during an emergency;
(c) Convene and  coordinate a statewide workgroup of disaster volunteer management
representatives for periodic review of  system standards, operations and needs, including
post-emergency performance reviews; and
(d) Convene and coordinate a statewide workgroup to:
(A) Identify opportunities  and protocols for interoperability between the system and
other specialized management systems for skilled volunteers that are used in Oregon;
(B) Develop recommendations to incentivize volunteerism  from the private sector, which
may include recommendations for legislation; and
(C) Develop recommendations for a program to  establish standards for volunteers and
provide training, certification, continuing  education and employment opportunities to volun-
teers.
(6) The Higher  Education Coordinating Commission, after the system is implemented,
shall develop policies and procedures to  incorporate the system into the activities and duties
of the OregonServes Commission in alignment with the  Federal Emergency Management
Agency National Response Framework element relating to volunteers.
[2]