1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2024 Regular Session
House Joint Memorial 201
Sponsored by Representatives CATE, JAVADI, LEVY B; Representatives BOICE, DIEHL, OWENS, Senator KNOPP
(Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Urges Congress to  support Israel in its war against Hamas. (Flesch Readability Score:
61.3).
Urges Congress to continue full and unequivocal support of the  State of Israel in Israel’s war
against Hamas.
JOINT MEMORIAL
To the Senate and  the House of Representatives of the United States of America, in Congress as-
sembled:
We, your memorialists,  the Eighty-second Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon, in legis-
lative session assembled, respectfully represent as follows:
Whereas on October 7, 2023, the terrorist organization  Hamas launched a deadly, heinous and
unprovoked attack on Israeli  civilians, firing thousands of rockets and killing more than 1,300 in-
nocent Israelis; and
Whereas Hamas committed unimaginable  atrocities on that day, engaging in a coordinated
campaign of burnings, beheadings and sexual savagery; and
Whereas Hamas was indiscriminate in its brutal crimes against  innocent men, women, children
and the elderly, and therefore Hamas must be held accountable; and
Whereas on October 8, 2023, in response to the deadliest slaughter  of Jewish people since the
Holocaust, Israel declared war against Hamas; and
Whereas Israel and the United States of America  are close friends and allies thanks to a 75-year
partnership built on mutual interests and shared democratic values; and
Whereas the State of Oregon reaffirms its support for and unwavering commitment to the  wel-
fare, security and continued existence of the State of Israel; now, therefore,
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
That we, the members of the Eighty-second  Legislative Assembly, respectfully urge the Congress
of the United States of America to  continue full and unequivocal support of Israel financially and
as otherwise necessary for as long as Israel seeks to bring Hamas to justice; and be it further
Resolved, That a copy of this memorial shall be sent to the Senate Majority Leader, to  the
Secretary of the Senate, to the Speaker of the House of Representatives, to the Chief Clerk of the
House of Representatives and to each member of the Oregon Congressional Delegation.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 294