1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2024 Regular Session
House Bill 4053
Introduced and  printed pursuant to House Rule 12.00. Presession filed (at the request of House Interim Committee
on Gambling Regulation for Representative John Lively)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act prohibits casinos  from operating in the state. The Act describes what a casino
is. (Flesch Readability Score: 61.2).
Prohibits the operation of casinos in this state, except  tribal casinos. Creates presumption that
a certain concentration of gaming machines constitutes a casino. Provides a definition of “casino.”
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to casinos.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) No person may operate a casino in this state.
(2) An establishment is irrebuttably presumed to be a casino  if the establishment con-
tains seven or more  of any combination of video lottery game terminals and historical animal
racing terminals.
(3) This section does not apply to tribal casinos.
(4) As used in this section:
(a) “Casino” means an establishment whose dominant use or dominant purpose, or  both,
is for gambling.
(b) “Establishment” means  physically contiguous real property under common ownership
or operation.
(c) “Gambling” means the act of playing a game and consciously risking money  or other
stakes on its outcome, except as otherwise provided in this subsection.
(d) “Gambling” does not include:
(A) Pari-mutuel wagering on an animal race,  provided that the wagers are made before
the race is completed; or
(B) Wagering on the outcome of a game if the outcome is predominantly dependent on
the skill of the person making the wager.
(e) “Tribal casino” has the meaning given that term in ORS 227.172.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 214