1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2947
Sponsored by Representative NERON; Representatives GAMBA, HELM, Senators  GOLDEN, PATTERSON,
SOLLMAN (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: This Act  directs OSU to study PFAS in biosolids that are spread on farm fields that do
not produce crops for human food. (Flesch Readability Score: 69.4).
Directs the Oregon  State University Extension Service and the College of Agricultural Sciences
of Oregon State University to study the distribution and occurrence of perfluoroalkyl and
polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) found in biosolids applied  to agricultural fields that do not
produce crops intended for human consumption. Directs the extension  service and college to submit
a final report to the interim committees  of the Legislative Assembly related to agriculture not later
than September 1, 2028.
Declares an emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to a study of PFAS in biosolids applied to land; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Oregon State University Extension Service and the College of Agri-
cultural Sciences of Oregon State  University shall conduct a statewide study to better un-
derstand the occurrence and distribution of perfluoroalkyl and  polyfluoroalkyl substances
(PFAS) found in biosolids applied to agricultural fields  that do not produce crops intended for
human consumption.
(2) In conducting the study under this section, the extension service  and the college shall
collaborate with the Department of Environmental Quality  and Oregon wastewater service
providers to:
(a) Identify  and quantify PFAS concentrations in selected biosolids from wastewater
treatment facilities in this state;
(b) Identify and quantify PFAS concentrations in  the soil profiles of selected agricultural
fields that do not produce crops intended for human  consumption, on which biosolids ana-
lyzed in paragraph (a) of this subsection have been applied to land as a  soil amendment, and
in adjacent agricultural fields without a history of biosolid application;
(c) Utilizing the data collected under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this subsection, determine
the quantities of PFAS retained within and leached from soil profiles; and
(d) Identify and quantify PFAS concentrations  in crops not intended for human con-
sumption grown in agricultural fields analyzed under paragraph (b) of this subsection.
(3) Participation in the study by wastewater treatment service providers,  farmers, land
owners or land managers is voluntary.
(4) To the greatest extent possible,  the extension service and the college shall use data
collection methods that do not disclose the precise location of agricultural fields  or
wastewater treatment facilities or identify the owners of agricultural fields or wastewater
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1726
HB 2947
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
treatment facilities that are  the subjects of the study. In the reports submitted under sub-
section (5)  of this section, the extension service and the college shall present summarized
information or aggregated data that does not directly identify the  location of agricultural
fields or  wastewater treatment facilities or identify the owners of agricultural fields or
wastewater treatment facilities.
(5) The extension service and  the college shall submit to the interim committees of the
Legislative Assembly related to agriculture, in the manner provided by ORS 192.245:
(a) A progress  report on the study conducted under this section, no later than December
15, 2026; and
(b) A final report on the study conducted under this section, no  later than September 1,
2028. The final report shall include, but need not be limited to:
(A) PFAS concentrations in biosolids;
(B) PFAS concentrations in background and biosolid-amended soil horizons;
(C) PFAS concentrations in crops grown on biosolid-amended soils; and
(D) Comparisons to published literature for context and interpretation.
SECTION 2.
In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there  is appropri-
ated to the  Higher Education Coordinating Commission, for the biennium beginning July 1,
2025, out of  the General Fund, the amount of $ , for distribution to Oregon State
University to carry out the study under section 1 of this 2025 Act.
SECTION 3. Section 1 of this 2025 Act is repealed on January 2, 2029.
SECTION 4. This 2025 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the  public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is  declared to exist, and this 2025 Act takes effect
on its passage.
[2]