1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 636
Sponsored by Senator BONHAM (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act would require the Department of Transportation to study the creation  of a road
usage charge to ensure that  electric and hybrid vehicles pay their fair share for the wear they cause
to Oregon highways. The Act would require a report to be turned in next year. (Flesch Readability
Score: 62.6).
Requires the Department of Transportation to study the creation of a road usage  charge to en-
sure that electric and hybrid motor vehicles pay their equitable share for the wear they  cause to
the highways in Oregon. Directs the department to submit a report  of the study to the interim
committees of the Legislative Assembly related to transportation no later than September 15, 2026.
Sunsets January 2, 2027.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to payment for use of the roads by electric motor vehicles.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
The Department of Transportation shall conduct a study of the creation of
a road usage charge, administered by a private sector partner, to ensure  that electric and
hybrid motor  vehicles pay their equitable share for the wear they cause to the highways in
Oregon. The  department shall submit a report of its findings to the interim committees of
the Legislative Assembly related to  transportation in the manner provided under ORS 192.245
no later than September 15, 2026.
SECTION 2. Section 1 of this 2025 Act is repealed on January 2, 2027.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2501