1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 219
Sponsored by Senator SMITH DB (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Changes the general powers of the PUC. (Flesch Readability Score: 66.7).
Modifies the general powers of the Public Utility Commission by removing  the commission’s
general power to balance the interests of the utility investor  and the consumer in establishing fair
and reasonable rates. Specifies that the commission is to protect the interests of the consumer.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to the Public Utility Commission; amending ORS 756.040.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 756.040 is amended to read:
756.040. (1) In addition to the powers and duties now or  hereafter transferred to or vested in the
Public Utility Commission, the commission shall  represent the customers of any public utility or
telecommunications utility and  the public generally in all controversies respecting rates, valuations,
service and all matters of which the commission has jurisdiction. In respect thereof the commission
shall make use of the jurisdiction and powers of the office to protect such customers, and the  public
generally, from unjust and unreasonable exactions and practices  and to obtain for them adequate
service at fair and reasonable rates. The commission shall [ balance] protect the interests  of [ the
utility investor and ] the consumer in establishing fair and reasonable rates. Rates are fair and rea-
sonable for the purposes of this subsection if the rates  provide adequate revenue both for operating
expenses of the public utility or telecommunications utility and  for capital costs of the utility[ , with
a return to the equity holder that is: ]
[(a) Commensurate with the return on  investments in other enterprises having corresponding risks;
and]
[(b) Sufficient to ensure confidence in the financial integrity of the utility, allowing  the utility to
maintain its credit and attract capital ].
(2) The commission is vested  with power and jurisdiction to supervise and regulate every public
utility and telecommunications utility in this state, and to do all things necessary and  convenient
in the exercise of such power and jurisdiction.
(3) The commission  may participate in any proceeding before any public officer, commission or
body of  the United States or any state for the purpose of representing the public generally and the
customers of the services of any public utility  or telecommunications utility operating or providing
service to or within this state.
(4) The commission  may make joint investigations, hold joint hearings within or without this
state and issue concurrent  orders in conjunction or concurrence with any official, board, commission
or agency of any state or of the United States.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 3800