1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 6
Sponsored by Senator ANDERSON
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Says an application for a building permit must be acted on not  later than 45 days after
it is done. (Flesch Readability Score: 63.8).
Requires the Department of  Consumer and Business Services, a municipality, a building official
or any other agency or official responsible for administering and enforcing the state  building code
to approve and  issue, or disapprove and deny, any application for a building permit not later than
45 business days after the date on which the applicant submits a complete application.
Declares that an  application for a building permit is approved if the department, a municipality,
a building official or any  other agency or official fails to deny or act upon the application within
the allowable period.  Requires prompt issuance of the building permit in such circumstances. Makes
the department, municipality, building official or other agency or official that fails to promptly  issue
the building permit liable to the applicant for the fees the applicant paid  and the costs the applicant
incurred in preparing the application.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to a deadline within which to act upon an application  for a building permit; creating new
provisions; and amending ORS 455.050.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 455.050 is amended to read:
455.050. (1) All building permits issued in  this state [ shall contain the following information ]
must list:
[(1)] (a)  The name and address of the owner of the building or  structure to be constructed or
altered under the permit;
[(2)] (b)  The name and  address of the builder or contractor, if known, who will perform the
construction or alteration; and
[(3)] (c)  The street address and legal description or tax lot  number of the property on which
construction or alteration will occur.
(2)(a) Notwithstanding any other condition  that applies to issuing a building permit in
this state, the Department of Consumer and Business Services, a  municipality, a building
official or any other agency or official  responsible for administering and enforcing the state
building code shall approve and issue, or disapprove  and deny, any application for a building
permit not later than 45 business  days after the date on which the applicant submits a
complete application.
(b) If the department,  a municipality, a building official or any other agency or official
responsible for  administering and enforcing the state building code does not disapprove or
otherwise act on an application for a building permit within the period described in paragraph
(a) of this subsection, the building  permit is approved and the department, municipality,
building official or other agency or official shall issue the building permit to the applicant
promptly.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 4622
SB 6
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
(c) If the department, a  municipality, a building official or any other agency or official
responsible for administering and enforcing the state building code does  not promptly issue
a building permit under the circumstances described in paragraph (b) of this  subsection, the
department, municipality, building official or other agency  or official is liable to the applicant
for the sum of the fee the applicant paid for the application and the actual documented ex-
penses the applicant incurred in preparing the application. The applicant may bring an action
for the sum described in this paragraph in  a court of this state and the court may award
attorney fees and costs to an applicant that prevails in the action.
SECTION 2.
The amendments  to ORS 455.050 by section 1 of this 2025 Act apply to com-
pleted applications for building permits that applicants submit on  or after the effective date
of this 2025 Act.
[2]