1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
80th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2019 Regular Session
Senate Bill 448
Sponsored by Senator THOMSEN, Representatives MARSH,  HELM, Senators DEMBROW, ROBLAN, Represen-
tatives BONHAM, HELT, LEWIS, WILLIAMS  (at the request of Oregon Outdoors, Oregon State Sheriffs’ As-
sociation, Mt. Hood Meadows, Oregon Restaurant and Lodging Association) (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Directs Office of Outdoor Recreation to study and make recommendations on  development of
Oregon  Outdoors  Pass. Requires office to submit report to Legislative Assembly by September 15,
2019.
Declares emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to outdoor recreation passes; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Office of Outdoor Recreation, in collaboration with the Department
of Transportation,  the State Department of Fish and Wildlife, the State Parks and Recre-
ation Department, the State Marine Board and any other state agency that issues  permits
or passes for outdoor recreating,  shall study and make recommendations for legislation re-
garding the development of an Oregon Outdoors Pass to  provide funding for outdoor recre-
ation education and search and rescue activities.
(2) The office shall  submit a report on its findings to an appropriate interim committee
of the Legislative Assembly no later than September 15, 2019.
SECTION 2. This 2019 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the  public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is  declared to exist, and this 2019 Act takes effect
on its passage.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2679