1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 776
Sponsored by Senator NASH, Representative LEVY B (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act tells an agency to identify areas with  drought impacts. The Act tells the agency
to reduce predators in the areas. The Act gives  money for purposes related to the areas. (Flesch
Readability Score: 61.1).
Instructs the State Department of Fish and Wildlife to  identify certain areas as wildlife man-
agement units or herd ranges and undertake  predator control in the wildlife management units or
herd ranges until certain criteria are met.
Appropriates moneys from the General Fund to the department for predator control.
Declares an emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to predator management in drought-stricken regions; and declaring an emergency.
Whereas wildlife  management plans established by the State Fish and Wildlife Commission con-
firm that prolonged drought contributes to habitat degradation and has negative  impacts on wildlife,
contributing to increased predation and mortality; now, therefore,
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
Section 2 of this 2025 Act is added to and made a part of the wildlife laws.
SECTION 2. Consistent with climate and ocean change key principles for species and
habitat management identified by the State Department of Fish and Wildlife, the  department
shall:
(1) Use established metrics and indices,  such as drought mapping, invasive grass inven-
tories, rangeland vegetation maps and similar information  available from federal and state
agencies and other entities,  including the Institute for Natural Resources, the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, the United States Forest Service and  the United
States Fish and Wildlife Service, to identify wildlife  management units or herd ranges con-
sisting of lands that  exhibit evidence of drought, habitat degradation and reduced nutritional
availability for wildlife populations and in which:
(a) Populations of  elk or mule deer are at or below 50 percent of the most recent popu-
lation goals set forth in individual species management  plans established by the department
or the State Fish and Wildlife Commission.
(b) Populations of pronghorn antelope, bighorn  sheep or mountain goats are below 75
percent of the rolling three-year average of the populations.
(2) Review and update the designations of wildlife management units or herd ranges at
least every two years.
(3) Collaborate with federal partners and local agencies to undertake predator control  in
the wildlife management units or herd ranges until:
(a) Populations of  elk or mule deer within the wildlife management units or herd ranges
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1666
SB 776
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
are at or above 80  percent of the most current population goals set forth in individual species
management plans established by the department or the commission.
(b) Populations of pronghorn antelope, bighorn sheep or mountain goats within  the
wildlife management units or herd ranges are at least 90  percent of the rolling three-year
average of the populations.
(4) Prioritize conservation efforts on land managed  by the department, to the extent of
the department’s authority,  within wildlife management units and herd ranges identified
pursuant to subsection (1) of this section.
(5) Cooperate with federal agencies, local agencies, nongovernmental organizations and
private landowners in  coordinating conservation projects to benefit wildlife management
units and herd ranges identified pursuant to subsection (1) of this section.
SECTION 3.
In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there  is appropri-
ated to the State Department of Fish and Wildlife, for the biennium  beginning July 1, 2025,
out of the General  Fund, the amount of $_____, for carrying out the provisions of section 2
of this 2025 Act.
SECTION 4. This 2025 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the  public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is  declared to exist, and this 2025 Act takes effect
on its passage.
[2]