1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2024 Regular Session
House Bill 4104
Sponsored by Representatives JAVADI, BOWMAN, PHAM H (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Creates a new state holiday to teach people about a heart disease  that is common but
is also not often diagnosed. (Flesch Readability Score: 60.6).
Designates the fourth Wednesday in February of each year as  Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy
Awareness Day.
Declares an emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to hypertrophic cardiomyopathy; and declaring an emergency.
Whereas hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is a chronic cardiac disease involving the
thickening of the heart muscle which can potentially lead to debilitating symptoms and serious
complications, including heart failure, atrial  fibrillation, stroke and in rare cases sudden cardiac
death; and
Whereas HCM is the most common  inheritable heart disease and can affect anyone regardless
of age, gender, or ethnicity, with a reported prevalence  ranging from 1 in 200 to 1 in 500 in the
general population; and
Whereas an estimated  700,000 to 1,650,000 people in the United States have HCM, yet 85 percent
of them remain undiagnosed; and
Whereas HCM  shares symptoms with other common cardiovascular and pulmonary diseases, in-
cluding shortness of breath,  chest pain, fatigue, palpitations and fainting, making it difficult to dis-
tinguish HCM from those other diseases; and
Whereas all-cause mortality risk is three to four times higher in patients with untreated HCM
than that of the general population; and
Whereas knowing one’s medical history and being familiar with the signs  and symptoms of HCM
is an important first step in receiving an accurate diagnosis of HCM; and
Whereas to help identify the risk of cardiac disorders, health care providers  must first conduct
thorough screenings with cardiac health questions; and
Whereas health  care providers may also conduct several tests, including an echocardiogram, a
cardiac  MRI,  and genetic testing, to confirm a family history of HCM, but must also examine the
heart to diagnose HCM; and
Whereas following a  diagnosis of HCM, it is important for patients to work with their health
care provider to learn more about their disease and understand different  management options, in-
cluding prescription medicines and surgical treatment options; and
Whereas HCM awareness is critically important in improving the cardiovascular health  of
Oregonians; now, therefore,
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 112
HB 4104
1
2
3
4
5
6
SECTION 1.
The fourth Wednesday in February of each year is designated as
Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy Awareness Day.
SECTION 2. This 2024 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist,  and this 2024 Act takes effect
on its passage.
[2]