1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 790
Printed pursuant to  Senate Interim Rule 213.28 by order of the President of the Senate in conformance with pre-
session filing rules,  indicating neither advocacy nor opposition on the part of the President (at the request
of Governor Tina Kotek for Oregon Advocacy Commissions Office)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act makes a new name for the head of OACO. (Flesch Readability Score: 100).
Renames the position of Administrator of the Oregon Advocacy Commissions  Office to executive
director of the Oregon Advocacy Commissions Office.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to the Oregon Advocacy Commissions Office; amending ORS 185.010.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 185.010 is amended to read:
185.010. (1) The Oregon Advocacy Commissions Office shall be staffed by  an [ administrator]
executive director, who is responsible for the performance  of the duties, functions and powers of
the office.
(2) A board consisting of the chairpersons of the commissions served by the office and the
Governor shall establish the qualifications for and appoint the [ Administrator of  the Oregon Advo-
cacy Commissions Office ] executive director .
(3) The [ Administrator of the Oregon Advocacy  Commissions Office ] executive director  shall
receive  a  salary as prescribed by law, or as prescribed by the board described in subsection (2) of
this section if a salary is not prescribed by law.
(4) The [ Administrator of the Oregon Advocacy Commissions  Office ] executive director is in the
unclassified  service.
(5) The [ Administrator of the Oregon Advocacy  Commissions Office ] executive director  shall
provide each commission  served by the office with the administrative support needed by the com-
mission to carry out  the statutory duties of the commission. Subject to any applicable provisions
of the State Personnel Relations Law,  the [ administrator] executive director shall employ all per-
sons necessary for the operation of the office, prescribe the duties of  those employees and establish
the compensation payable to those employees.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 283