1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
79th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2017 Regular Session
House Bill 3063
Sponsored by Representative OLSON, Senator GELSER, Representative KENY-GUYER;  Representative NOSSE,
Senators FREDERICK, KRUSE, MONNES ANDERSON, STEINER HAYWARD
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced.
Establishes Mental Health Housing Fund, appropriates moneys to  Oregon Health Authority and
requires authority to seek out and apply for additional moneys for fund to  pay for construction and
start-up costs of housing for individuals with mental illness. Requires authority to convene advisory
group.
Declares emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to housing for individuals with mental illness; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Oregon Health Authority shall seek out and apply for  grants, gifts
and contributions of moneys to pay for:
(a) The development of community-based housing  for individuals with mental illness; and
(b) Crisis intervention services,  rental subsidies and other housing-related services to
help keep individuals with mental illness safe and healthy in their communities.
(2) The authority shall use  moneys received under subsection (1) of this section and any
legislative appropriation for such purposes to provide funding for up to:
(a) Thirty-five percent of the costs for the purchase of land  and the construction of
housing for individuals with mental illness; and
(b) Fifty percent of the start-up costs of the housing, including but not limited to fix-
tures, furnishing and training of staff.
(3) The authority may waive the 35 percent limit on construction costs  under subsection
(2)(a) of this section for a low-cost project or to meet a critical need in a rural area.
(4) The authority shall convene an advisory group to make recommendations to the  au-
thority for:
(a) The allocation of moneys between different types of housing;
(b) Soliciting proposals; and
(c) Processing applications.
(5) The advisory group convened under subsection (4) of this section must include:
(a) One representative of a private provider of mental health treatment;
(b) One representative of a private provider of substance abuse treatment;
(c) Two representatives of  groups that advocate on behalf of consumers of mental health
or substance abuse treatment;
(d) Two staff persons from the division of the Oregon Health Authority that  regulates
mental health and substance abuse treatment programs;
(e) Two consumers of mental health or substance abuse treatment;
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1826
HB 3063
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
(f) One representative of a community mental health program;
(g) One person with expertise in developing and  financing community housing projects;
and
(h) One representative of community corrections.
SECTION 2.
The Mental Health Housing Fund is established in the State Treasury, sep-
arate and distinct from the General Fund. Moneys in the Mental Health Housing Fund  are
continuously appropriated to the Oregon Health Authority  for carrying out the provisions
of section 1 of this 2017 Act. The Mental  Health Housing Fund consists of moneys received
under section 1 of this 2017 and moneys from  the General Fund appropriated for such pur-
poses. Moneys  in the Mental Health Housing Fund at the end of a biennium are retained in
the fund and do not revert to the General Fund.
SECTION 3. There is appropriated to the Oregon Health Authority, for the biennium be-
ginning July 1, 2017, out of the General Fund, the amount of $  million for the pur-
poses described in section 1 of this 2017 Act.
SECTION 4. This 2017 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist,  and this 2017 Act takes effect
on its passage.
[2]