1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2023 Regular Session
Senate Bill 298
Sponsored by Senator THATCHER (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Requires Oregon Department of Administrative Services to contract with private  auditing firm
not located in this state to conduct audit of all nonprofit organizations  that since January 1, 2019,
received moneys paid, directly or indirectly or through state agency or otherwise, from  State
Treasury. Specifies standards for and  contents of audit. Requires auditing firm to submit report to
Legislative Assembly not later than December 31, 2024.
Takes effect on 91st day following adjournment sine die.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to audits of nonprofit organizations that receive  state moneys; and prescribing an effective
date.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1)(a) The Oregon Department of Administrative Services shall contract with
a private firm with experience in auditing the financial condition and financial practices of
nonprofit organizations, the principal office of which is not located  in this state, to conduct
an audit of all nonprofit organizations that since January 1, 2019, have received  moneys paid,
directly or indirectly or through  a state agency or otherwise, from the State Treasury. The
audit, at a minimum, must:
(A) Determine how much of the nonprofit organization’s budget and expenditures  in each
fiscal year in which the nonprofit organization received moneys paid  as provided in this
paragraph consisted of moneys paid as provided in this paragraph;
(B) List for each nonprofit organization the source of moneys paid as provided in  this
paragraph and whether the nonprofit organization received the  moneys through a compet-
itive process or as a direct grant;
(C) Identify any statutes, administrative rules or state agency policies that  applied to the
award of the grant and the nonprofit organization’s use of the moneys  paid as provided in
this paragraph;
(D) Examine the nonprofit organization’s expenditures to determine whether the
nonprofit organization used the moneys paid as  provided in this paragraph in accordance
with the statutes, rules and policies identified in subparagraph (C) of this paragraph; and
(E) Identify how much of the moneys paid  as provided in this paragraph that the
nonprofit organization spent on administration, including amounts the nonprofit organization
spent on executive salaries or  salaries for board members, listing the actual amounts for
each nonprofit organization and each position and  calculating as a percentage of the moneys
the nonprofit organization received the amounts  that the nonprofit organization spent as
described in this subparagraph.
(b) The auditing firm must conduct the audit in compliance with generally  accepted au-
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1403
SB 298
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
diting standards  or, if appropriate for the type of audit the firm must conduct to make a
finding required under paragraph (a) of this subsection, other applicable auditing standards,
and must examine the extent to which each nonprofit  organization’s accounting practices
comply with generally accepted accounting principles.
(2)(a) The auditing firm shall prepare a  report that summarizes and explains the firm’s
findings and provides supporting evidence for  any conclusions the firm reaches concerning
the findings.
(b) The firm shall recommend any changes in state agency oversight or  the accountabil-
ity, practices or  operations of nonprofit organizations that receive moneys paid as provided
in subsection (1)(a) of this section that are necessary to ensure that:
(A) Adequate competition for state  funding exists to ensure that recipients of moneys
paid as provided in subsection (1)(a) of this section  do not receive undue advantages over
other potential recipients; and
(B) Moneys paid as provided in subsection  (1)(a) of this section fund intended programs
and provide intended benefits, with minimal  expenditures on administrative costs and or-
ganizational overhead.
(c) The auditing firm shall submit the report in the manner provided by ORS 192.245  not
later than December 31, 2024, and in addition shall submit copies  of the full report to each
member of the  Joint Committee on Legislative Audits, the presiding officers of each house
of the Legislative Assembly and the leaders of the minority  caucus in each house. The report
may include recommendations for legislation.
SECTION 2.
This 2023 Act takes effect on the 91st day after the date on  which the 2023
regular session of the Eighty-second Legislative Assembly adjourns sine die.
[2]