1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 549
Sponsored by Senator SOLLMAN,  Representative MARSH; Senators CAMPOS, MEEK, REYNOLDS, Represen-
tatives FRAGALA, GAMBA, GOMBERG, GRAYBER, LIVELY, MCLAIN, NELSON, NOSSE,  SOSA (Presession
filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act prohibits OHA and CCOs from making people get prior approval for the  repair
of CRT. (Flesch Readability Score: 60.1).
Prohibits the Oregon Health Authority and coordinated care organizations from requiring prior
authorization for the repair of complex rehabilitation technology.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to complex rehabilitation technology.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
Section 2 of this 2025 Act is added to and made a part of ORS chapter 414.
SECTION 2. (1) As used in this section, “complex rehabilitation technology” means
manual or power wheelchair systems, adaptive seating systems, alternative  positioning sys-
tems, adaptive strollers, standing frames,  gait trainers or specifically designated options or
accessories that are:
(a) Classified as durable medical equipment; and
(b) Individually configured for a specific individual  to meet the individual’s unique med-
ical, physical  or functional needs and capacities for basic activities of daily living and in-
strumental activities of daily living, including employment.
(2) The Oregon Health Authority or a coordinated care organization may not require
prior authorization for medical assistance coverage for the  cost to repair complex rehabili-
tation technology if the technology:
(a) Is identified as medically necessary to promote  mobility in the home and community
or prevent hospitalization of the individual;
(b) Is  primarily used to serve a medical purpose and generally is not useful to an indi-
vidual in the absence of disability, illness or injury; and
(c) Requires services to be  provided by a qualified complex rehabilitation technology
provider to ensure that the technology  is appropriately designed and configured according
to the individual’s medical condition, physical and functional needs  and capacities, body size,
period of need and intended use.
SECTION 3.
Section 2 of this 2025 Act applies to contracts between  a coordinated care
organization and the Oregon Health Authority entered  into, amended or renewed on or after
the effective date of this 2025 Act.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1501