1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Joint Resolution 10
Sponsored by Representative OWENS (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Removes the condition that a  school district must have voters approve a bond for capital
cost matching funds. (Flesch Readability Score: 61.6).
Proposes an amendment to the Oregon Constitution to  remove the requirement that school dis-
tricts must receive voter approval for local general obligation bonds  in order to be eligible for
matching funds from state-issued bonds.
Refers the proposed amendment to the people for their approval or rejection at the next regular
general election.
JOINT RESOLUTION
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
PARAGRAPH 1.
 Section 1, Article XI-P of the Constitution of the  State of Oregon, is amended
to read:
Sec. 1.  (1) In the manner provided by law  and notwithstanding the limitations contained in
section 7, Article XI of this  Constitution, the State of Oregon may loan its credit and incur indebt-
edness, in an aggregate outstanding principal amount not to exceed, at any one  time, one-half of one
percent of the real market value of the real property in this state, to provide funds to be  advanced
by grant or loan to school districts to finance the capital  costs of the school districts. Bonds issued
under this section may not be paid from ad valorem property taxes.
(2) Indebtedness incurred under this section must be  in the form of general obligation bonds of
the State of Oregon containing a direct  promise to pay the principal, interest and premium, if any,
of the bonds in an aggregate outstanding principal amount not  to exceed the amount authorized in
subsection (1) of this section. The bonds are the direct obligation of the State of  Oregon and must
be in such form, run for such periods of time, have such terms and  bear such rates of interest as
may be provided by statute. The State of Oregon  shall pledge its full faith and credit and taxing
power to the payment of the  principal, interest and premium, if any, of the bonds. However, the
State of Oregon may not pledge its ad valorem taxing power to the payment of the bonds.
(3) The proceeds from bonds issued  under this section may be used only to provide matching
funds to finance the  capital costs of school districts [ that have received voter approval for local gen-
eral obligation bonds ] and to provide for the  costs of issuing bonds and the payment of debt service.
(4) The proceeds from bonds issued under this section may not  be used to finance the operating
costs of school districts.
PARAGRAPH 2. The amendment proposed by this resolution shall be submitted to the
people for their approval or rejection at the next  regular general election held throughout
this state.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1171