1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Joint Resolution 9
Sponsored by Senator GIROD (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The measure asks voters to prohibit legislators from voting on bills when faced with a
conflict of interest. The measure states when this rule does not apply.  (Flesch Readability Score:
67.7).
Proposes  an  amendment to the Oregon Constitution to prohibit members of the Legislative As-
sembly from voting  on legislative measures when faced with a conflict of interest. Permits a vote
to occur if the legislative entity is otherwise unable to muster sufficient  votes to pass or defeat the
measure. Authorizes the Legislative Assembly by law to authorize a regulatory agency to provide
oversight to ensure compliance with the conflict of interest requirements.
Refers the proposed amendment to voters for their approval or rejection at next regular  general
election.
JOINT RESOLUTION
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
PARAGRAPH 1.
 The Constitution of the State of Oregon is amended by creating a new  section
35 to be added to and made a part of Article IV, such section to read:
SECTION 35. (1) A member of the Legislative Assembly may not cast a vote on a legis-
lative measure being considered in committee or in a  floor session if the measure presents
the member with an actual  conflict of interest or a potential conflict of interest. A member
must announce that the member is required to refrain from voting  on the measure because
of a conflict of interest and shall state the nature of the conflict.
(2) Subsection (1) of this section does not apply if:
(a) The number of votes in favor of  the measure, when added to the number of votes that
would be unable to be cast because of a conflict of interest, is less than the minimum number
of votes necessary to pass or adopt the measure; and
(b) The number of votes opposed to the measure is less than  the minimum number of
votes needed to ensure that the measure not be passed or adopted.
(3) Notwithstanding sections  9 and 11 of this Article, the Legislative Assembly may by
law authorize a regulatory agency to provide oversight and an administrative forum  to en-
sure compliance with this section.
(4) As used in this section:
(a) “Actual conflict of interest” means any vote on a legislative  measure by a member
of the Legislative Assembly, the effect of which would be to the  private pecuniary benefit or
detriment of the member or the member’s relative or any business with  which the member
or a relative of the  member is associated, unless the pecuniary benefit or detriment arises
out of circumstances described in paragraph (b) of this subsection.
(b) “Potential conflict of interest” means any vote  on a legislative measure by a member
of the Legislative Assembly, the  effect of which could be to the private pecuniary benefit or
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1444
SJR 9
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
detriment of the member  or the member’s relative or any business with which the member
or a relative of the member is associated, unless the pecuniary  benefit or detriment arises
out of the following:
(A) Any vote that would affect to the same degree a class consisting of  all inhabitants
of this state, or a smaller  class consisting of an industry, occupation or other group includ-
ing one of which  or in which the member or the member’s relative or any business with
which the member or a relative of the member is associated.
(B) Membership in or  membership on the board of directors of a nonprofit corporation
that is exempt from federal income tax.
PARAGRAPH 2.
The amendment proposed by this resolution shall be submitted to  the
people for their approval or rejection  at the next regular general election held throughout
this state.
[2]