1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2023 Regular Session
House Bill 2042
Introduced and printed pursuant to House Rule 12.00. Presession filed (at the  request of Commissioner of the Bu-
reau of Labor and Industries Val Hoyle)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced.
Requires Bureau of Labor and Industries to establish and administer grant  program to support
development and implementation of registered apprenticeship and  preapprenticeship training pro-
grams in wine and nursery industries.
Authorizes State Apprenticeship and Training  Council to award grants to certain entities that
develop apprenticeship and preapprenticeship  training programs in wine and nursery industries that
provide certain occupational training. Requires council to award grants on competitive basis.
Provides purposes for which grant moneys may be used. Requires recipient of grant moneys  to
track and report to council on status of any apprenticeship  and preapprenticeship training programs
developed with grant moneys.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to workforce development.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) As used in this section:
(a) “Community-based organization”  means nonprofit organizations that are represen-
tative of a particular community or segments  of a community and that are located within
or in close proximity to the community served by the organization.
(b) “Nursery industry” means an industry in which nursery stock  and other nursery-
related products are propagated, produced and raised for retail or commercial sale.
(c) “Nursery stock” has the meaning given that term in ORS 571.005.
(d) “Wine industry” means an  industry in which grapes are cultivated, harvested and
produced for wine production.
(2) The Bureau of Labor  and Industries shall establish and administer a grant program
to provide financial support for the development and implementation of  registered appren-
ticeship and preapprenticeship training programs in the wine industry  and nursery industry.
(3) The State Apprenticeship and Training Council, under the  direction of the Appren-
ticeship and Training Division of the  Bureau of Labor and Industries, may award grants to
community-based organizations, labor organizations and other entities to develop and imple-
ment apprenticeship and preapprenticeship  training programs in the wine and nursery in-
dustries that provide, at a minimum, occupational training in one or more of the following:
(a) Plant and soil science.
(b) Irrigation and irrigation systems.
(c) Grafting, pruning, budding, potting and other practices related to  the propagation and
production of nursery stock.
(d) The cultivation, harvesting and production of grapes and other skills common  to
viticulture.
(4) The Apprenticeship and  Training Division of the Bureau of Labor and Industries shall
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 266
HB 2042
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
recommend for approval by the council:
(a) The criteria and  standards by which the entities described in subsection (3) of this
section may submit proposals to receive a grant under this  section and the general terms
and conditions of the grants.
(b) The grant proposals to consider in awarding grants.
(5) The council shall award grants under this section on a  competitive basis, taking into
consideration proposals that describe how an entity described in subsection (3) of this section
will engage with employers in the targeted industry  sectors to provide the training necessary
in order for an apprentice to obtain gainful  employment in the wine industry or nursery in-
dustry.
(6) A recipient of a grant under this section may use the moneys:
(a) To pay the costs of convening employers in the wine and nursery industries;
(b) To recruit and conduct outreach for apprentices;
(c) To provide tuition and fee assistance to participants  in an apprenticeship or preap-
prenticeship training program developed under this section;
(d) To pay the costs of tools, supplies and equipment and other training-related costs;
(e) To pay for technology supports;
(f) To provide  apprentices with supportive services to facilitate successful completion of
an apprenticeship or preapprenticeship training program developed under this section;
(g) To develop  uniform occupational standards for new registered apprenticeship and
preapprenticeship training programs developed under this section that comply  with the es-
tablished federal apprenticeship standards;
(h) To develop a curriculum and standard courses of  study for the instruction of ap-
prentices; and
(i) For any other activities that the bureau deems necessary to  support the development
of the apprenticeship and preapprenticeship training programs, and  to support overall pro-
gram participation.
(7) The bureau may adopt rules necessary to implement the provisions of this section.
(8) Each grant recipient shall track and report to the council  information regarding the
status of each apprenticeship and preapprenticeship training program developed and  imple-
mented under this section and the use of grant funds.
[2]