1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 3193
Sponsored by Representative MARSH, Senator PHAM K, Representative VALDERRAMA;  Representatives
CHAICHI, HUDSON, MUNOZ, NGUYEN H, Senator PATTERSON (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act would create  a relief program to provide money to farmworkers who have lost
income due to a disaster. (Flesch Readability Score: 63.8).
Requires the Oregon Health Authority to  establish and implement a permanent farmworker
disaster relief program.
Appropriates moneys out of the General Fund to the authority to carry out the program.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to farmworker disaster relief.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) As used in this section:
(a) “Farmworker” means an individual who is or has  been employed in Oregon in a lawful
activity related to agriculture, farming,  fishing, planting or harvesting trees, dairy, ranching,
food processing, canning, slaughtering, packaging, butchering or a nursery.
(b) “Qualifying disaster” includes:
(A) A drought, wildfire, earthquake, hurricane, flood, excessive  heat, tornado, winter
storm, snowstorm, freeze, hail, smoke, tsunami, volcanic eruption or other adverse  weather
event.
(B) A pandemic or other public health crisis.
(C) A declaration of an emergency under ORS 401.165 or public health emergency under
ORS 433.441 by the Governor.
(D) An emergency declaration related to public health or a natural  disaster that is issued
by a municipality, county or public health official.
(2) The Oregon Health Authority shall  establish and implement a permanent farmworker
disaster relief program to provide financial support to farmworkers who  lose income or
wages due to a qualifying disaster.
(3)(a) The authority shall enter into a contract with a worker relief organization  to dis-
tribute financial support to eligible farmworkers under the program.
(b) To be eligible to enter  into a contract with the authority under this subsection, a
worker relief organization must:
(A) Be registered in the State of Oregon for at least  six months prior to the date on
which the contract is signed.
(B) Specialize in providing financial support to workers experiencing a financial  hardship.
(4) To be eligible to receive financial support under this section,  a farmworker must
submit to the worker relief organization evidence of:
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1558
HB 3193
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
(a) A  qualifying disaster that resulted in a loss of income or wages, including a loss of
income due to slower work for piece-rate workers.
(b) The specific zip code  and county in which the farmworker was employed during the
qualifying disaster described in paragraph (a) of this subsection.
(c) Having experienced a financial hardship due to the qualifying disaster’s impact on the
ability of the farmworker to pay for reasonable and necessary living expenses.
(5) The authority shall adopt rules necessary to carry out this section,  including rules
establishing application procedures for farmworkers to apply for financial support.
SECTION 2.
In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there  is appropri-
ated to the Oregon Health Authority, for the biennium beginning July 1, 2025, out of the
General Fund, the  amount of $10,000,000 for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of
section 1 of this 2025 Act.
[2]