1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2443
Sponsored by Representative  YUNKER; Representatives BOICE, WRIGHT, Senators NASH, SMITH DB, WEBER
(Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act tells a county clerk to  cancel a voter’s enrollment for certain reasons. (Flesch
Readability Score: 65.7).
Requires a county clerk to cancel the registration  of an elector if the elector registers to vote
in another county, surrenders the  elector’s driver license upon being issued a license in another
state or is excused from jury duty for not being a United States citizen.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to cancellation of voter registration; amending ORS 247.555.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 247.555 is amended to read:
247.555. (1) A county clerk may cancel the registration of an elector:
(a) At the request of the elector;
(b) Upon the death of the elector;
(c) If the [ county clerk receives written evidence  that the] elector has registered to vote in another
county or  state; [ or]
(d) If the elector has not responded  to a notice described in ORS 247.563 and has not voted or
updated a registration during the period beginning on the date the notice  is sent and ending on the
day after the date of the second regular general election that  occurs after the date the notice was
sent[.];
(e) If the elector surrenders the elector’s driver  license to the Department of Transpor-
tation upon being issued a driver license in another state; or
(f) If the elector is excused from jury duty for not being a citizen of the United States.
(2) For purposes of this section, subsection (1)(c) and  (e) of this section constitute con-
firmation from the elector  to cancel the registration of the elector due to a change in resi-
dence address.
(3) If the registration of an elector is canceled, the elector, in order to vote in  an election, must
register as provided in this chapter.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1190