1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 691
Sponsored by Senator REYNOLDS, Representatives GRAYBER, NERON, WALLAN;  Senator GELSER BLOUIN,
Representative NELSON (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act tells OHA to give some moneys to an OHSU entity that helps  get better ma-
ternal and neonatal health care. The Act also says OHA and  a CCO have to pay for peer support
specialist services and some hospital services. (Flesch Readability Score: 60.1).
Directs  the  Oregon Health Authority to distribute moneys to an entity within the Oregon Health
and Science University that advocates for improved maternal and neonatal outcomes. Requires  the
authority and a coordinated care organization to provide  reimbursement for services provided by a
peer support  specialist, regardless of the clinical setting in which services are provided, and for in-
patient hospital services provided to specified individuals.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to health care.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Oregon Health Authority shall distribute moneys to the Oregon
Health and Science University for  the purpose of supporting an entity within the Oregon
Health and Science University that advocates for improved maternal and neonatal outcomes
through collaboration, implementation of evidence-based practices and policy change in this
state. The entity must:
(a) Coordinate and provide support to existing and new sites that provide  integrated
perinatal care and substance use disorder treatment for individuals who have  substance use
disorder and are pregnant or parents of infants; and
(b) Provide support for expansion  of the existing projects, including necessary staffing
and site-specific resources.
(2) In consultation with both a collaborative that advocates for improved  maternal and
childhood health outcomes through collaboration, implementation of evidence-based practices
and policy change, and a national organization that works to reimagine, redesign and imple-
ment sustainable improvements in the health care system, the entity described  in subsection
(1) of this section must  ensure that the expansion of existing projects described in subsection
(1) of this  section is through a formalized, stepwise approach in order to expand to at least
one additional site for the existing  projects each year. The expansion approach must identify
funding, staff and infrastructure to support the expansion and include a framework for  data
collection and continual project evaluation.
SECTION 2.
In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there  is appropri-
ated to the Oregon Health Authority, for the biennium beginning July 1, 2025, out of the
General Fund, the amount of $_______  for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of sec-
tion 1 of this 2025 Act.
SECTION 3.
Sections 4 and 5 of  this 2025 Act are added to and made a part of ORS
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2632
SB 691
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
chapter 414.
SECTION 4.
The Oregon Health Authority and a coordinated care organization shall re-
imburse the  costs of covered services provided by peer support specialists to recipients of
medical assistance, regardless of the clinical setting in which the services were provided.
SECTION 5. The Oregon Health Authority and a coordinated care organization shall re-
imburse hospitals for the costs of:
(1) Up to five days of inpatient hospital services that are provided to a recipient  of med-
ical assistance at  any gestational age during pregnancy for the purposes of stabilization and
medication induction for opioid use disorder; and
(2) Up to five days of inpatient hospital services that are provided to a recipient  of med-
ical assistance after delivery of an infant  for the purposes of medication management for
substance use disorder, care coordination, social work support, breastfeeding  support and
initiation of family-infant bonding.
SECTION 6. Sections 4 and 5 of this 2025  Act apply to contracts between a coordinated
care organization and the Oregon Health Authority entered into, amended or renewed  on or
after the effective date of this 2025 Act.
[2]