83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Enrolled
House Concurrent Resolution 15
Sponsored by Representative FAHEY (Presession filed.)
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
(1) This resolution constitutes a  rule of proceeding of the Senate and the House of Represen-
tatives of the Eighty-third Legislative Assembly.
(2) The Senate and the House  of Representatives shall adhere to the following schedule and
deadlines for the 2025 regular session of the Eighty-third Legislative Assembly:
(a) The Senate and the House of Representatives shall convene in regular  session on January
21, 2025.
(b) Before March 10, 2025,  the Senate and the House of Representatives may convene their re-
spective floor sessions as needed, as determined for the Senate by the President of the  Senate and
as determined for the House of Representatives by the Speaker of the House of Representatives.
(c) Members and committees shall submit requests for drafts of measures  to the Office of the
Legislative Counsel on or before January 17, 2025, at 5:00 p.m.
(d) Members and committees shall submit drafts of measures for introduction to the Senate  and
House Desks no later than February 25, 2025, at 5:00 p.m.
(e) The  Senate and House of Representatives may convene daily floor sessions beginning on
March 10, 2025.
(f) Committee chairpersons  shall schedule work sessions for measures in the chamber of origin
no later than March 21, 2025. This paragraph does not apply to  the Joint Committee on Ways and
Means, other joint committees, the Senate Committee on  Finance and Revenue, the House Commit-
tee on Revenue, the Senate Committee on Rules, the House  Committee on Rules, the Senate Com-
mittee on Conduct and the House Committee on Conduct.
(g) Committees shall  consider measures in the chamber of origin no later than April 9, 2025.
This paragraph does not apply to the Joint Committee on Ways and Means,  other joint committees,
the Senate  Committee on Finance and Revenue, the House Committee on Revenue, the Senate
Committee on Rules,  the House Committee on Rules, the Senate Committee on Conduct and the
House Committee on Conduct.
(h) Committee chairpersons shall schedule work sessions for  measures in the second chamber
no later than May 9, 2025. This paragraph does  not apply to the Joint Committee on Ways and
Means, other joint committees, the Senate Committee  on Finance and Revenue, the House Commit-
tee on Revenue, the Senate Committee on  Rules, the House Committee on Rules, the Senate Com-
mittee on  Conduct and the House Committee on Conduct, except that this paragraph applies to the
Joint Committee on Transportation.
(i) Committees of the Senate and  House of Representatives shall close no later than May 23,
2025. This  paragraph does not apply to the Joint Committee on Ways and Means, other joint com-
mittees, the Senate  Committee on Finance and Revenue, the House Committee on Revenue, the
Senate Committee on Rules,  the House Committee on Rules, the Senate Committee on Conduct and
the House Committee on Conduct, except that this paragraph  applies to the Joint Committee on
Transportation.
(3) The rules of the Senate and House  of Representatives shall apply to matters not specified in
this resolution. The rules of the  Senate and House of Representatives may establish timelines for
Enrolled House Concurrent Resolution 15 (HCR 15-INTRO) Page 1
priority measures, for measures approved by the presiding officers, for measures approved by  joint
committees or for appropriation and fiscal measures approved by the Joint  Committee on Ways and
Means that are different from the timelines established in subsection (2) of this resolution.
Adopted by House January 13, 2025
Timothy G. Sekerak, Chief Clerk of House
Julie Fahey, Speaker of House
Adopted by Senate January 13, 2025
Rob Wagner, President of Senate
Enrolled House Concurrent Resolution 15 (HCR 15-INTRO) Page 2