1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 1015
Sponsored by Senator SOLLMAN
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act tells the DOJ to create a grant program to give moneys to certain entities. The
Act directs the entities to use the moneys  to reduce community violence. (Flesch Readability Score:
63.7).
Requires the Department of Justice to develop and implement a grant program  to award moneys
to eligible entities to reduce community violence in  communities experiencing disproportionately
high rates of community violence.
Takes effect on the 91st day following adjournment sine die.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to community violence; and prescribing an effective date.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) As used in this section, “community violence” means intentional, inter-
personal violence committed in public  with a firearm by someone who is not the victim’s
family member or intimate partner.
(2) The Department  of Justice shall develop and implement a program to award grants
to eligible entities  for the purpose of reducing community violence in communities experi-
encing disproportionately high rates of community violence.
(3) The following types of entities are eligible to apply for a grant:
(a) Community-based organizations.
(b) Federally recognized Indian tribes in Oregon.
(c) Other  organizations for which the primary mission is to increase community safety,
except for law enforcement entities.
(4) Grants awarded under this section may be used only for  the purposes of developing,
implementing or expanding evidence-informed community violence reduction, prevention and
intervention services, including covering costs  related to administration, capital projects,
capacity building, training, professional development, human  resources, sustainability,
emergency housing,  direct violence intervention services and stipends or incentives for indi-
viduals who are participating in a community violence intervention service.
(5)(a) The department shall prescribe the form and process by which an eligible entity
may apply for and be awarded grants under the program.
(b) To be considered  to receive a grant award, an eligible entity described in subsection
(3) of this section must submit an application to the department.  The application must in-
clude, but is not limited to:
(A) A description of how the  applicant proposes to use the grant to implement commu-
nity violence prevention services.
(B) A description of how the applicant proposes to use  the grant to serve a community
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 790
SB 1015
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
experiencing disproportionately high rates of community violence.
(C) Evidence demonstrating that the proposed  community violence prevention services
are likely to reduce the  incidence of community violence without confining individuals in
correctional facilities.
(c) The department shall prioritize  awarding grants to entities for which the applications
demonstrate the greatest likelihood of  reducing community violence in a community experi-
encing disproportionately high rates of community violence.
(6)(a) The department shall establish an oversight board to  advise on the development
of the form and process for applications and to support  the department in administering the
grant program. Membership on the oversight board must include, but is not limited  to,
survivors of community violence,  individuals who have been impacted by community vi-
olence, experts in the  prevention of community violence and researchers of community vi-
olence.
(b) The oversight board shall evaluate information  reported by grant recipients to assess
the efficacy of the grant program and, if appropriate,  recommend improvements for future
grant cycles.
(7)(a) The department shall require  recipients of grants under this section to report an-
nually to the oversight board on the  progress of the community violence prevention services
funded by the grants. The annual report must include:
(A) An explanation how grant moneys were used;
(B) An  accounting of the number of individuals who received community violence inter-
vention services as a result of the grant award; and
(C) Any available  quantitative or qualitative data demonstrating individual or community
impacts as a result of the grant award.
(b) The department shall publish on its website a list of grants awarded  under this sec-
tion and a discussion of the efficacy and outcomes of the program.
SECTION 2.
(1) Section 1 of this 2025 Act becomes on operative January 1, 2026.
(2) The Department of Justice  may adopt rules and take any other action before the op-
erative date specified  in subsection (1) of this section that is necessary to enable the de-
partment, on and after the operative date specified  in subsection (1) of this section, to
undertake and exercise all of the  duties, functions and powers conferred on the department
by section 1 of this 2025 Act.
SECTION 3. This 2025 Act takes effect on the 91st day after the date on  which the 2025
regular session of the Eighty-third Legislative Assembly adjourns sine die.
[2]