1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2775
Sponsored by Representative EVANS (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Tells a state agency to see if it is  possible to get discounts on home loans for putting
in renewable energy systems. Shows examples of the kinds of systems the agency should  look into.
Tells the agency to report back its findings to the legislature. (Flesch Readability Score: 60.0).
Requires the Department of  Consumer and Business Services to study the feasibility of providing
discounted mortgage loans to home  buyers who install energy generation improvements capable of
providing electricity to a local utility. Directs the department to submit findings to  interim com-
mittees of the Legislative Assembly related to energy resources not later than September 15, 2026.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to discounted mortgage loans for installation of energy generation improvements.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
The Department  of Consumer and Business Services shall study the feasi-
bility of providing discounts on mortgage loans to home buyers who install renewable energy
generation systems, including photovoltaic cells and wind power generation facilities or
equipment, that are capable  of ensuring the homeowner’s energy security and providing
electricity to local  utilities for use in the utilities’ power grid. The department shall submit
a report, in the manner  provided by ORS 192.245, and may include recommendations for
legislation, to the interim committees of the Legislative Assembly  related to energy re-
sources no later than September 15, 2026.
SECTION 2.
Section 1 of this 2025 Act is repealed on January 2, 2027.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2407