1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2219
Introduced and  printed pursuant to House Rule 12.00. Presession filed (at the request of House Interim Committee
on Behavioral Health and Health Care for Representative Rob Nosse)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act tells OHA and CCOs to change  the rates at which hospitals are reimbursed for
labor and delivery services. (Flesch Readability Score: 63.8).
Directs the Oregon Health Authority and coordinated care organizations, to  the extent permit-
ted by federal  law, to establish reimbursement rates for labor and delivery services provided by
hospitals to medical assistance recipients that are no less than the costs to provide the services.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to reimbursement rates for hospital obstetric services.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
Section 2 of this 2025 Act is added to and made a part of ORS chapter 414.
SECTION 2. (1)(a) To the extent permitted by federal law, the Oregon Health Authority
shall establish fee-for-service reimbursement rates for labor and delivery  services provided
by a hospital to a medical assistance recipient that are no less  than the costs to provide the
services.
(b) Rates of reimbursement established by the authority under  this section shall be suf-
ficient to address a hospital’s need to  have appropriate staff resources available at all times.
(2) A  coordinated care organization shall reimburse a hospital for providing labor and
delivery services at the rates established in subsection (1) of this section.
SECTION 3. Section 2  of this 2025 Act applies to contracts between a coordinated care
organization and the Oregon Health Authority entered  into, amended or renewed on or after
the effective date of this 2025 Act.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2767