1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
79th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2017 Regular Session
House Bill 3291
Sponsored by Representative SMITH G
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Directs Oregon Department of Administrative Services, in coordination  with Legislative Fiscal
Officer and Legislative Revenue Officer, to  prepare biennial budget stress test report that estimates
effects on state finances of hypothetical negative economic conditions.
Directs department to submit report to Legislative  Assembly in last calendar quarter of each
even-numbered year.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to budget stress testing.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) Each biennium, the Oregon Department of Administrative Services,  in
coordination with  the Legislative Fiscal Officer and the Legislative Revenue Officer, shall
prepare a budget stress test report that estimates the effects on state finances of  hy-
pothetical economic conditions.
(2) The budget stress test report:
(a) Must include consideration of at least two  sets of hypothetical economic conditions,
with one set of conditions simulating a mild  economic downturn and another set of condi-
tions simulating a severe economic downturn;
(b) Must estimate the effects of each set of hypothetical economic conditions on state
finances, including, at a minimum, effects on revenues,  demand for government services,
expenditures and levels of formal or informal reserves;
(c) Must compare the effects of each set of hypothetical economic conditions with the
effects of baseline conditions representing no economic downturn; and
(d) Must include recommendations for prudent amounts of reserve funds.
(3) The department shall submit the budget stress test report to the Legislative Assembly
in the manner provided by ORS 192.245 in the last calendar  quarter of each even-numbered
year at the same time the department  reports the estimate required by ORS 291.342 (2)
during that quarter.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 3242