1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
79th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2017 Regular Session
Senate Joint Resolution 24
Sponsored by Senator GIROD (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Proposes amendment to Oregon Constitution  to limit state governmental appropriations for
general governmental purposes  in biennium to lesser of percentage increase in projected personal
income, percentage increase in projected population growth plus inflation  or percentage increase in
projected gross domestic product of Oregon for biennium. Transfers any excess revenues to reserve
fund.
Refers proposed amendment to people for their approval or rejection at next  regular general
election.
JOINT RESOLUTION
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
PARAGRAPH 1.
 The Constitution of the State of Oregon is amended by creating new sections
16 and 16a to be added to and made a part of Article IX, such sections to read:
SECTION 16. (1) As used in this section:
(a) “Ending balance” means the positive difference between the amount of General  Fund
revenues collected during a biennium and the maximum amount of state governmental ap-
propriations for general governmental purposes allowed for the biennium.
(b) “Gross domestic product” means the total  value of the goods and services produced
in this state, not including the value of income earned in foreign countries.
(c) “Population and inflation index” means the sum of:
(A) The ratio of the cost of living for the previous calendar year to the cost  of living for
two years prior to the previous calendar year, based on changes in  the city average con-
sumer price index; and
(B) The ratio of the estimated population  of this state for the previous calendar year to
the estimated population of  this state for two years prior to the previous calendar year, as
determined by a state agency designated by law.
(2) Each biennium, state governmental appropriations for general  governmental purposes
shall be no greater than the lesser of:
(a) The percentage  increase in projected personal income in Oregon for the same
biennium;
(b) The percentage increase in the projected population and inflation  index in Oregon for
the same biennium; or
(c) The percentage increase in the projected gross domestic product of  Oregon for the
same biennium.
(3)(a) Projected personal  income shall be based on the last quarterly economic and re-
venue forecast given to the Legislative Assembly before adjournment sine die of the  odd-
numbered year regular session on which the legislatively adopted budget is based.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1340
SJR 24
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
(b) A state agency designated  by law shall adopt rules specifying a methodology for de-
termining the population  and inflation index and the gross domestic product of Oregon for
purposes of this section.
(4) For purposes of this section, the following are considered to be appropriations:
(a) An authorization, given by law, to expend moneys in a biennium;
(b) A limitation, imposed by law, on the expenditure in a  biennium of moneys that are
continuously appropriated; and
(c) An estimate  of amounts of moneys that are continuously appropriated that will be
spent in a biennium without limitation.
(5) The  following appropriations are not subject to the limitation on appropriations con-
tained in this section:
(a) Appropriations for the construction or acquisition of  assets that are financed by state
bonds, certificates of participation or other forms of borrowing.
(b) Appropriations of moneys received directly or  indirectly from the federal government.
(c) Appropriations for fee remission programs of public universities.
(d) Appropriations of moneys voluntarily donated to a state agency.
(e) Appropriations of moneys from revenue increases or new revenue  sources if the in-
creases or sources result from approval of a measure by the people at an  election held on
or after January 1, 2019.
(f) Appropriations to fund new programs or to increase funding for  existing programs if
the need for new or increased funding results from approval of  a measure by the people at
an election held on or after January 1, 2019.
(6) The limitation on appropriations established by this  section may be exceeded for a
biennium if the Governor declares an emergency and three-fourths of the members  serving
in each house of the Legislative Assembly affirmatively vote to exceed  the limitation for the
biennium.
(7) If this section  operates to limit the amount of state governmental appropriations for
general governmental purposes for  a biennium, the amount of the ending balance for that
biennium shall be transferred to a reserve fund designated by law.
SECTION 16a. (1) Section 16 of this Article applies  to biennia beginning on or after July
1, 2019.
(2) This section is repealed on June 20, 2021.
PARAGRAPH 2.
The amendment proposed by this resolution shall be submitted to  the
people for their approval or rejection  at the next regular general election held throughout
this state.
[2]