1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 667
Sponsored by Senator BONHAM (at the request of former Senator Dennis Linthicum) (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Bans the militia of the state from being called  forth for an armed conflict or war unless
the U.S. Congress declares war or  a purpose under the U.S. Constitution. (Flesch Readability Score:
60.7).
Prohibits the Governor from ordering out  for service the militia of the state for participation in
or support of an armed conflict or the conduct of war unless the  United States Congress passes a
declaration of war or calls forth the militia of the state  to execute the laws of the United States,
suppress an insurrection or repel an invasion.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to the militia of the state; amending ORS 396.135.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 396.135 is amended to read:
396.135. (1) When the militia of the state or any part  thereof is called forth under the Consti-
tution and laws of the United States, the Governor shall order out for service the organized  militia
or such part thereof as may be necessary, and if the number available is  insufficient the Governor
may call for and  accept from the unorganized militia as many volunteers as are required for service
in the organized militia or the Governor may direct the  members of the unorganized militia or such
of them as the Governor may deem necessary to be drafted into the organized militia.
(2) Notwithstanding subsection (1) of this section,  the Governor may not order out for
service the militia of the state or any part thereof if  the service is for the participation in
or support of an armed conflict or the conduct of war unless the United States Congress:
(a) Passes a declaration of war under Article I, section 8, clause 11,  of the United States
Constitution; or
(b) Takes official action to explicitly call forth the militia of the state or  any part thereof
for the purpose of executing the laws of the United States,  suppressing an insurrection or
repelling an invasion under Article I, section 8, clause 15, of the United States Constitution.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1805