1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2980
Sponsored by Representative HELM, Senator GORSEK,  Representatives OWENS, HARTMAN, Senator REYNOLDS;
Representatives ANDERSEN, CHAICHI, GAMBA, GOMBERG, HUDSON, LEVY B, MARSH, NOSSE, PHAM
H, WALTERS, Senators CAMPOS, FREDERICK, GELSER BLOUIN, GOLDEN, TAYLOR (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act tells ODFW  to set up a Wildlife Stewardship Program. (Flesch Readability
Score: 80.3).
Directs the State Department of Fish and Wildlife to establish a  Wildlife Stewardship Program.
Directs the department  to administer a grant program to support licensed wildlife rehabilitation
centers. Appropriates moneys to the department, out of the  General Fund, for purposes of the grant
program.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to wildlife.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The State Department of Fish and Wildlife shall  establish the Wildlife
Stewardship Program.
(2) The program shall develop an educational campaign focused on messaging for  living
with wildlife in urban and suburban areas, minimizing human-wildlife conflict and emphasiz-
ing the core value that wildlife should stay wild.
(3)(a) The program shall include biologists stationed  in strategic locations of this state
and serving the urban and adjacent suburban areas near their stations.
(b) The biologists shall:
(A) Conduct outreach to local governments, community groups and schools;
(B) Provide training sessions for  local governments, community groups, schools, law
enforcement, animal control and other interested groups;
(C) Provide assistance  and support to local wildlife rehabilitators with their efforts to
care for sick, injured and orphaned wildlife,  provide assistance to local wildlife rehabilitators
regarding rules and practices for the holding and proper care of wildlife  and conduct in-
spections of local wildlife rehabilitation centers and facilities; and
(D) Work collaboratively with wildlife rehabilitators to  consistently implement rules and
practices related to the  topics described in subparagraph (C) of this paragraph, to the extent
practicable.
(4) The program shall administer a grant  program to support licensed wildlife rehabili-
tation centers that hold and treat injured and orphaned wildlife.
SECTION 2.
In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there is appropri-
ated to the State Department  of Fish and Wildlife, for the biennium beginning July 1, 2025,
out of  the General Fund, the amount of $200,000 for the purpose of carrying out the grant
program described in section 1 (4) of this 2025 Act.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 675
HB 2980
1
[2]