1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2024 Regular Session
Senate Bill 1518
Printed pursuant to  Senate Interim Rule 213.28 by order of the President of the Senate in conformance with pre-
session filing rules,  indicating neither advocacy nor opposition on the part of the President (at the request
of Senate Interim Committee on Veterans, Emergency Management, Federal and World Affairs for  COFA Al-
liance National Network)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act forbids DHS from denying public aid to COFA  citizens because they are not
U.S. citizens. (Flesch Readability Score: 60.1).
Prohibits the Department of Human Services from  denying public assistance, including Supple-
mental Nutrition Assistance Program benefits, to COFA citizens based on their immigration status.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to COFA citizens’ eligibility for public assistance.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
Section 2 of this 2024 Act is added to and made a part of ORS chapter 411.
SECTION 2. (1) As used in this section, “COFA citizen” has the meaning given that term
in ORS 413.614.
(2) A COFA citizen residing in this  state may not be denied public assistance, including
Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program benefits, on the basis of the COFA citizen’s im-
migration status.
SECTION 3.
In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there is appropri-
ated to the Department of Human Services, for the biennium ending June 30,  2025, out of the
General Fund, the  amount of $_______, which may be expended for providing public assistance
to COFA citizens as required under section 2 of this 2024 Act.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 166