1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 784
Sponsored by Senator NASH, Representative LEVY B; Representative HARBICK (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act includes certain  subjects in the state’s dual credit programs. (Flesch Readability
Score: 64.9).
Specifies that the statewide standards for  dual credit programs include programs in agriculture,
forestry and natural resources.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to dual credit programs; amending ORS 340.310.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 340.310 is amended to read:
340.310. (1) The Higher Education Coordinating Commission shall develop  statewide standards
for dual credit programs , including programs in agriculture, forestry and natural resources,  to
be implemented by public high  schools, community colleges and public universities listed in ORS
352.002. The standards must establish the manner by which:
(a) A student in any grade from 9 through 12 may, upon  completion of a course, earn course
credit both for high school and for a community college or public university; and
(b) Teachers of courses that are part of  a dual credit program will work together to determine
the quality of the program and to ensure the alignment of the content, objectives and outcomes of
individual courses.
(2) Each  public high school, community college and public university that provides a dual credit
program must implement the statewide standards developed under subsection (1) of this section.
(3) Each school district, community college and public  university that provides a dual credit
program shall  submit an annual report to the Higher Education Coordinating Commission on the
academic performance of students  enrolled in a dual credit program. The Higher Education Coordi-
nating Commission shall establish the  required contents of the report, which must provide sufficient
information to allow the commission to determine the quality of the dual credit program.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2993