1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 683
Sponsored by Senator GOLDEN (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act tells OHA to conduct a count of primary care physicians in this state who  are
in active practice. (Flesch Readability Score: 68.0).
Requires the Oregon Health Authority to conduct a study  every two years to count the number
of licensed and actively practicing primary care physicians  in this state. Directs the authority to
submit a report to the Legislative Assembly and make the report publicly available.
Takes effect on the 91st day following adjournment sine die.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to primary care physicians; and prescribing an effective date.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) As used in  this section, “primary care physician” means a physician li-
censed under ORS chapter 677 whose clinical practice is:
(a) Family medicine;
(b) General internal medicine; or
(c) Pediatrics.
(2) Every two years, the Oregon Health Authority shall conduct a study to count  the
number of primary care physicians in this state who are licensed and in  active practice. In
conducting the study, the authority shall:
(a) Include a primary care physician in  the count only if the physician is actively seeing
patients in a primary care capacity;
(b) Sort the data by city and region; and
(c) Identify gaps  in the availability of primary care physicians in rural and medically
underserved areas.
(3) The authority shall submit a report on the authority’s findings to the Legislative
Assembly, including any recommendations for addressing primary care physician shortages
and improving health care access in rural and medically underserved areas, and shall  make
the report publicly available on the authority’s website.
SECTION 2.
No later than September 15, 2026, the Oregon Health Authority shall com-
plete the first report described in section 1 of this 2025 Act.
SECTION 3. This 2025 Act takes effect on the 91st day after the date on  which the 2025
regular session of the Eighty-third Legislative Assembly adjourns sine die.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1637