1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2026 Regular Session
Senate Bill 1573
Sponsored by  Senator DRAZAN, Representative EDWARDS, Senator ANDERSON; Senators MEEK, SMITH DB,
THATCHER, Representatives BUNCH,  EVANS, HELFRICH, ISADORE, LEVY B, LEWIS, RESCHKE, RIEKE
SMITH, SMITH G, WRIGHT, YUNKER (at the request of Stadiumhood) (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act says a syringe service program may not operate  by a school or child care fa-
cility. (Flesch Readability Score: 65.1).
Prohibits a syringe service program from operating a mobile  or temporary location within 2,000
feet of a school or  licensed child care facility. Defines “syringe service program.” Provides that any
person may bring a cause of action for damages against  a syringe service program operating in vi-
olation of the prohibition.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to syringe service programs.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) As used in this section:
(a) “Licensed child care facility” means a child care center certified under ORS  329A.280
that is operating under authority of a valid business license.
(b) “Syringe service program” means a program that provides services including free
sterile needles and syringes and safe disposal for needles and syringes.
(2) A syringe service program may not provide services from a mobile  or temporary lo-
cation that is within 2,000 feet of the real property comprising an existing:
(a) Public or private elementary, secondary or career  school attended primarily by mi-
nors; or
(b) Licensed child care facility.
(3)(a) Any person may bring an action to enforce the requirements of subsection (2) of
this section in the circuit court in the county in which a syringe service program operates.
(b) In an action under this subsection, there is a rebuttable presumption that  discarded
needles, syringes or drug paraphernalia, as defined in ORS 475.525, found within 2,000  feet
of the real estate described in subsection (2) of this section were discarded from a syringe
service program operating in violation of subsection (2) of this section.
(c) A plaintiff who prevails in an action under this subsection may recover the greater
of:
(A) $5,000; or
(B) The actual damages incurred by the plaintiff to clean up the discarded items.
(d) The court shall award reasonable  attorney fees to the plaintiff if the plaintiff prevails
in an action under this subsection.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 259