1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
79th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2017 Regular Session
Senate Bill 925
Sponsored by Senator PROZANSKI (at the request of Partnership for Safety and Justice)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Establishes Law  Enforcement Assisted Diversion Pilot Program. Directs Oregon Criminal Jus-
tice Commission to administer program and award grants  to law enforcement jurisdictions. Appro-
priates moneys from General Fund to commission for purpose of funding program.
Sunsets program on July 1, 2023.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to law enforcement assisted diversion.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Oregon Criminal Justice Commission shall establish and administer
the Law Enforcement  Assisted Diversion Pilot Program described in this section. From funds
appropriated to the commission for purposes of  the program, the commission shall award
grants to law  enforcement jurisdictions to provide pre-booking managed services as an al-
ternative to detention and prosecution of persons arrested  for controlled substance, property
or prostitution crimes and such  other crimes as determined by the law enforcement juris-
diction.
(2) During a grant application period established by the commission, funding shall be
awarded through a competitive application process as  determined by the commission. Fund-
ing may be awarded to up to five law enforcement jurisdictions.
(3) An application for a  grant awarded under this section must contain a detailed pro-
posal for  the establishment of a law enforcement assisted diversion program in the
applicant’s jurisdiction. The proposal must include:
(a) A description of the proposed harm reduction-based programs for participants;
(b) A description of the program budget and any other expected funding sources;
(c) A memorandum of understanding of all stakeholders concerning  the operation of the
program, including local law enforcement agencies, district attorneys, criminal  defense at-
torneys, service providers and community leaders or associations;
(d) A commitment to implement a non-displacement policy in  which the programs pro-
vided to participants are funded solely by the grants received from the commission;
(e) A community-based, harm reduction-oriented services provider to provide case  man-
agement services to program participants;
(f) A plan for implementing a stakeholder operational work group to staff cases;
(g) A plan for a site visit to observe an  established law enforcement assisted diversion
program in an adjoining state; and
(h) Any other program or funding requirements established by rule by the commission.
(4) The program budget described in the application may include funding for  the site visit
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1574
SB 925
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
and other forms of training regarding harm reduction programs, provision  of services to
participants or other subjects to support effective implementation.
(5)(a) Notwithstanding subsections (2) and (3)  of this section, a county may apply for
funding for a law enforcement assisted diversion program as part of an application  for Jus-
tice Reinvestment Program under section 53, chapter 649, Oregon Laws 2013.
(b) If a county applies for the Law Enforcement Assisted  Diversion Pilot Program as
described in paragraph (a) of  this subsection, a grant award shall first be funded by moneys
appropriated to the commission for  the program before any Justice Reinvestment Program
funds may be used.
(c) A county awarded funding under this subsection counts as one law enforcement ju-
risdiction for purposes of the limit described in subsection (2) of this section.
(6) The commission shall establish a law enforcement assisted diversion  consultation
group consisting of all grant recipients within the state. The commission shall  ensure that
the consultation group meets as least biannually  to support implementation of the programs
and shared learning. The commission may use a portion of funds appropriated to the com-
mission for the program to fund travel and other  expenses associated with the consultation
group meetings.
(7) The commission shall adopt rules to implement this section.
SECTION 2.
In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there is appropri-
ated to  the Oregon Criminal Justice Commission, for the biennium beginning July 1, 2017,
out of the General Fund, the amount of $2,000,000, for the  purposes of funding the Law
Enforcement Assisted Diversion Pilot Program described in section 1 of this 2017 Act.
SECTION 3. Section 1 of this 2017 Act is repealed on July 1, 2023.
[2]