1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2023 Regular Session
Senate Bill 39
Sponsored by Senator FINDLEY (at the request of Oregon Business and Industry) (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Requires agency to report to appropriate committee or  interim committee of Legislative As-
sembly before permanently amending rule  that was adopted or last amended less than five years
earlier.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to administrative rules.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
Section 2 of this 2023 Act is added to and made a part of ORS chapter 183.
SECTION 2. (1) Before an agency permanently amends a  rule that was adopted or last
amended less than five years earlier, the agency shall report to  an appropriate committee
or interim committee of the Legislative Assembly. The report must include:
(a) A summary of the proposed rule;
(b) A statement justifying the need for amending the rule less than five years after the
rule was adopted or last amended;
(c) An explanation  of how the amended rule will impact penalties, inspections,
recordkeeping requirements,  reporting, analyses and permitting requirements for regulated
entities; and
(d) All public comments submitted regarding the amended rule.
(2) The agency shall submit the report required under this section:
(a) No later than 30 days after the agency stops accepting public  comment on the
amended rule; and
(b) At least 30 days before the amended rule takes effect.
(3) This section does not apply to amendments to rules necessary to:
(a) Implement legislation;
(b) Comply or align with federal regulations or standards; or
(c) Respond to a state of emergency.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 879