1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 3272
Sponsored by Representative EVANS
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Tells colleges to give course credit to an  incoming student who took part in certain
programs while the student was in high school. (Flesch Readability Score: 65.7).
Requires a public  institution of higher education to award academic credit when an enrolled
student completed a high school class or participated in a high school program that  offered learning
and experiences comparable  to an introductory communications, public speaking or argumentation
course offered at the institution.
Requires the institution to award two or four academic credits to each  student who participated
in specified programs affiliated with  national organizations. Prohibits an institution from requiring
certain students to take an introductory communications, public speaking or argumentation course
offered at the institution as a prerequisite for taking more advanced courses at the institution.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to academic credits at public institutions of higher education.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) As used in this section, “public institution of higher education” has the
meaning given that term in ORS 350.350.
(2) A high school in this state shall  certify, in a manner to be determined by the State
Board of Education by rule, that a student who  previously attended that high school and who
is enrolled at a public institution of higher education participated:
(a) For not less than  two academic years in a program affiliated with a national organ-
ization whose mission is to prepare high school and college students for careers in market-
ing, finance, hospitality and management.
(b) For not less  than three academic years in a program affiliated with a national or-
ganization whose mission is to  develop the potential of students for leadership, personal
growth and career success through agricultural education.
(c) For not less than  three academic years in a program affiliated with a national or-
ganization whose mission  is to support communities committed to empowering students
through speech and debate.
(3)(a) Each public institution of higher education shall award academic credit when  an
incoming student has completed high school classes or participated in  high school programs
that offer  learning and experiences comparable to an introductory communications, public
speaking or argumentation course offered at the public institution of higher education.
(b) A  student who is certified by the student’s high school as having met the require-
ments of subsection (2)(a) of this section shall:
(A) Be considered to have  fulfilled the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this
subsection; and
(B) Receive two academic credits at the public institution of higher education.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 3170
HB 3272
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
(c) A student who is certified by the student’s high school as having met the require-
ments of subsection (2)(b) or (c) of this section:
(A) Shall be considered to have fulfilled  the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of
this subsection;
(B) Shall receive four academic credits at the public institution of higher education; and
(C) May not be required by the public institution of  higher education to take an intro-
ductory communications, public speaking or argumentation course offered at  the public in-
stitution of higher education as a prerequisite to taking more advanced courses at the
institution.
(4) The Higher Education Coordinating  Commission and the State Board of Education
may enact rules necessary for the implementation of this section.
SECTION 2.
Section 1 of this 2025 Act first applies to the 2026-2027 academic year.
[2]