1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2859
Sponsored by Representative EVANS (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: This Act tells ODVA and the Governor to ask for  funds for ODVA at a certain level and
tells the legislature to fund ODVA at that level. (Flesch Readability Score: 60.3).
Requires the Department of Veterans’ Affairs, in its biennial  agency request budget, to request
a certain level of funding. Requires the Governor’s budget to fund the  department at a certain level
of funding. Requires the Legislative Assembly to fund the department at a certain level of funding.
Provides that the requirements do not apply under certain negative economic conditions.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to services for veterans.
Whereas on November 8, 2016, the voters of this state adopted Ballot Measure 96; and
Whereas that measure constitutionally dedicated a portion of state lottery net proceeds  to fund
veterans’ services; and
Whereas it was the intent of the voters that such funding be  in addition to, and not in lieu of,
previous levels of funding for veterans’ services; now, therefore,
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) In each biennium,  the Department of Veterans’ Affairs shall, in its
agency request  budget filed under ORS 291.208, request appropriations from the General
Fund in an amount that is no less than the minimum required funding level.
(2) In each biennium, the Governor shall, in the Governor’s budget required  under ORS
291.202, include appropriations from the General Fund to the Department of  Veterans’ Af-
fairs in an amount that is no less than the minimum required funding level.
(3) In each biennium, the Legislative  Assembly shall appropriate from the General Fund
to the Department of Veterans’ Affairs an amount that is no less  than the minimum re-
quired funding level.
(4) Subsections (1), (2) and (3) of this section do not apply if:
(a) The last quarterly economic and revenue forecast for a  biennium indicates that
moneys available to  the General Fund for the next biennium will be at least three percent
less than appropriations from the General Fund for the current biennium;
(b) There has been a decline for two or more consecutive quarters in the last 12  months
in seasonally adjusted nonfarm payroll employment; or
(c) A quarterly  economic and revenue forecast projects that revenues in the General
Fund in the current biennium will be at least two  percent below what the revenues were
projected to be in the revenue forecast on which  the legislatively adopted budget for the
current biennium was based.
(5)(a) As used in this section, “minimum  required funding level” means the amount ap-
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2138
HB 2859
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
propriated from the General Fund to the Department of Veterans’ Affairs in  the biennium
beginning July 1, 2015, as adjusted under paragraph (b) of this subsection.
(b) For purposes of paragraph (a) of  this subsection, the amount appropriated from the
General Fund to  the Department of Veterans’ Affairs in the biennium beginning July 1, 2015,
is adjusted as follows:
(A) The amount does not include amounts appropriated in the biennium beginning  July
1, 2015, for debt service payments; and
(B) The amount is multiplied by an inflation factor  determined by dividing the Consumer
Price Index for All Urban Consumers, West Region (All Items), as published by the Bureau
of Labor Statistics of the United States Department of Labor, for December  of the year im-
mediately preceding the year  in which the biennium begins by the same Consumer Price In-
dex for December 2014.
[2]