1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 769
Sponsored by Senator NASH, Representative LEVY B (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act  makes it lawful to use dogs to hunt cougars in a county if county voters ap-
prove. The Act tells the county to notify an agency. (Flesch Readability Score: 74.0).
Provides that a county is exempt from  the applicability of a statute banning the use of dogs to
hunt or pursue cougars  if voters approve a county measure proposed by initiative petition or re-
ferred to the people by the governing body of the county.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to  county elections concerning methods of taking wildlife; and providing for criminal sen-
tence reduction that requires approval by a two-thirds majority.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) A  county is exempt from the applicability of the provisions of ORS 498.164
related to cougars if a county measure is approved that exempts  the county from the appli-
cability of  the provisions of ORS 498.164 related to cougars. The measure may be proposed
by initiative petition, or referred to the people by the governing  body of the county, at an
election held on a date specified in ORS 203.085 (1).
(2) A county that is exempt  from the applicability of the provisions of ORS 498.164 related
to cougars pursuant to subsection (1) of this section shall notify the State Department of
Fish and Wildlife.
(3) The exemption of a county under this section does not  otherwise affect the authority
of the State Fish and Wildlife  Commission to manage cougars in the county under the
wildlife laws.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1230