1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 970
Sponsored by Senator GELSER BLOUIN; Representative HUDSON
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Limits when students may  be placed in remote or online learning programs. (Flesch
Readability Score: 67.7).
Provides that enrollment in a  remote learning program or an online learning program is volun-
tary. Provides exceptions.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to the provision of instruction in a manner that is not in person.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) As used in this section:
(a) “Online learning program” means an instructional program or plan in which instruc-
tion regularly and primarily occurs online or by other electronic technology.
(b) “Remote learning program” means  an instructional program or plan in which the
student is regularly separated by time or location  for the student’s instructional time with
the teacher, regardless of whether technology is used.
(2) Student enrollment  in a remote learning program or an online learning program is
voluntary and may not be unilaterally imposed by a school district.
(3) Subsection (2) of this section does not apply to:
(a) An out-of-school suspension imposed in compliance with ORS 339.250.
(b) A remote learning program or an online learning program provided on a  temporary
basis as part of  an alternate interim placement for a student while a functional behavioral
assessment is being conducted or  for whom a behavior intervention plan is being developed
or implemented in compliance with the requirements of federal and state law.
(c) A remote learning program or an online learning program provided on a temporary
basis to a majority of  the students in the program due to a public health emergency, a
human-created disaster, a natural disaster or any other declared public emergency.
SECTION 2.
Section 1 of this 2025 Act applies to instruction provided on  or after the ef-
fective date of this 2025 Act.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2080