1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
80th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2019 Regular Session
Senate Bill 618
Sponsored by Senator GIROD
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Requires school districts to describe amount of moneys received from local, state, federal and
other sources for each student of school district and to make information available  at school
district’s office and on school district’s website.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to school district funding information; amending ORS 329.095.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 329.095 is amended to read:
329.095. (1)(a) The Department of Education shall  require school districts and schools to conduct
self-evaluations  and  to periodically update their local district continuous improvement plans. Except
as provided by paragraph (b)(C) of this  subsection, the department may not require school districts
or schools to conduct self-evaluations or to update their local district  continuous improvement plans
more frequently than biennially.
(b) The department may require a school district to:
(A) File, periodically,  or at the department’s request, its local district continuous improvement
plan with the department;
(B) Notify the department of any substantial changes, as defined by rule of the State  Board of
Education, to the school district; or
(C) Update its local district  continuous improvement plan when there has been a substantial
change, as defined by rule of the board, to the school district.
(c) The self-evaluation process conducted  as provided by this subsection shall involve the public
in the setting of local goals. The school districts shall ensure that representatives from the demo-
graphic groups of  their school population are invited to participate in the development of local dis-
trict continuous improvement plans to achieve the goals.
(2) As part of setting local goals, school districts shall undertake  a communications process that
involves parents, students, teachers, school employees  and community representatives to explain and
discuss the local goals and :
(a) [ Their] The  relationship  of the local goals  to programs under this chapter.
(b) How those local goals are being funded, including a  description of the amount of
moneys received by a school  district from local, state, federal and other sources for each
student in the school district’s average daily membership, as defined in ORS 327.006.
(3) At the request of [ the] a  school district, department staff shall provide ongoing technical
assistance in the development and implementation of the  local district continuous improvement plan.
(4) The local district continuous improvement plan shall include:
(a) Goals to implement the following:
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1117
SB 618
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
(A) A rigorous curriculum aligned with state standards;
(B) High-quality instructional programs;
(C) Short-term and long-term professional development plans;
(D) Programs and policies that achieve a safe educational environment;
(E) A plan for family and community engagement;
(F) Staff leadership development;
(G) High-quality data systems;
(H) Improvement planning that is data-driven;
(I) Education service plans for students who have or have not exceeded all  of the academic
content standards; and
(J) A strong school library program;
(b) A review of demographics, student performance, staff characteristics and student  access to,
and use of, educational opportunities; and
(c) A description of [ district] the school district’s  efforts to achieve local efficiencies and  ef-
forts to make better use of resources.
(5) A school district shall make the information described in  subsection (2)(b) of this
section available at the school district’s office and on the website for the school district.
[2]