1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
79th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2017 Regular Session
House Bill 3191
Sponsored by Representative SMITH WARNER, Senator HASS
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Directs Department of Education to administer pilot program to offer summer  education to ele-
mentary school students in high poverty, low performing schools with high populations of  English
language learners. Sunsets pilot program on January 2, 2020.
Establishes Summer Learning Fund, separate and  distinct from General Fund. Continuously ap-
propriates  moneys  in Summer Learning Fund to State Library for purposes of funding summer
learning planning, programming and awareness.
Declares emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to summer education; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Department of Education shall administer a pilot program to offer
summer education to elementary school students in high poverty, low performing  schools
that have significant populations of English language learners. The  department shall adopt
rules establishing eligibility for participation in the pilot program.
(2) To participate in the pilot program, the  school district board of an eligible school
district must submit an application in the form required by the department. The  application
must:
(a) Designate a community organization that has agreed to partner with the school dis-
trict to provide the program.
(b) Include the number of students the program expects to serve and the  number of staff
required.
(c) Include an estimate of program costs.
(3) The department may approve an eligible school district’s proposed program if the
proposed program:
(a) Provides food to students during the program;
(b) Has qualified staff; and
(c) Provides at least five weeks of instruction during the summer.
(4) The department shall award grants  to eligible school districts that the department
selects to participate in the  pilot program from moneys available to the department for the
pilot program. A  school district may use grant funds for the purpose of transporting stu-
dents to and from the program.
(5) The department shall require a school district that participates in the pilot program
to complete an evaluation after completion of the pilot program.
(6) The department may adopt rules to implement the pilot program.
SECTION 2.
Section 1 of this 2017 Act is repealed on January 2, 2020.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2783
HB 3191
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
SECTION 3. The Summer Learning Fund is established in the State  Treasury, separate
and distinct from the General Fund. Interest earned by  the Summer Learning Fund shall
be credited to the fund. The fund consists of amounts appropriated or  otherwise transferred
to the fund by the Legislative Assembly, amounts received from  state, federal and private
sources, amounts donated to the fund and  other amounts deposited in the fund from any
source. Moneys in  the fund are continuously appropriated to the State Library for the pur-
pose of funding summer learning planning, programming and awareness.
SECTION 4. This 2017 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist,  and this 2017 Act takes effect
on its passage.
[2]