1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2023 Regular Session
Senate Bill 766
Sponsored by COMMITTEE ON JUDICIARY
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Directs Oregon Criminal Justice Commission to award noncompetitive grants through Illegal
Marijuana Market Enforcement Grant Program to Department of State Police for specified purposes
related to unlawful marijuana cultivation or distribution operations. Specifies  that other grants
awarded through program are awarded on competitive basis.
Declares emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to cannabis; amending section  13, chapter 103, Oregon Laws 2018; and declaring an emer-
gency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 Section 13, chapter 103, Oregon Laws 2018, as amended by section 1,  chapter 3,
Oregon Laws 2021 (second special session), and section 7, chapter 117, Oregon Laws  2022, is
amended to read:
Sec. 13.  (1) The  Illegal Marijuana Market Enforcement Grant Program is established to assist
cities and counties with the costs incurred by local law enforcement  agencies , the Department of
State Police with costs incurred by the department,  and  community-based organizations in ad-
dressing unlawful marijuana cultivation or distribution operations.
(2) The Oregon  Criminal Justice Commission shall administer the grant program described in
subsection (1) of this section and shall award the grants described in this section.
(3) The commission shall adopt rules to administer the grant  program. Rules adopted under this
section must include:
(a) A methodology for reviewing and approving grant applications and awarding grants; and
(b) A process for evaluating the efficacy of [ local law enforcement ] programs and services funded
by the grant program.
(4) Moneys distributed to grant recipients under  this section must be spent on costs associated
with addressing and prosecuting unlawful marijuana cultivation or distribution operations.
(5) The commission shall establish three categories of grants under this section  as fol-
lows:
(a) Grants awarded, on a competitive basis, to cities and counties;
(b) Grants awarded, on a competitive basis, to community-based organizations; and
(c) Grants awarded to the department.
[(5)] (6) The commission shall prioritize the following when awarding grants under this section:
(a) Providing financial assistance  to local law enforcement agencies and district attorneys in
rural areas of this state to address unlawful marijuana cultivation or distribution operations;
(b) Supporting local law enforcement agencies and district attorneys in investigating  and pros-
ecuting large-scale unlawful marijuana cultivation or distribution operations;
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 3751
SB 766
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
(c) Providing financial assistance to local law enforcement  agencies and district attorneys in the
investigation and prosecution of organized crime involved in unlawful marijuana  cultivation or dis-
tribution operations;
(d) Providing financial assistance to local law  enforcement agencies and district attorneys in the
investigation and prosecution of unlawful marijuana cultivation  or distribution operations that di-
vert marijuana outside of this state; [ and]
(e) Providing financial assistance to  local law enforcement agencies and community-based or-
ganizations in order to address the ongoing humanitarian crisis associated with unlawful  marijuana
cultivation or distribution operations  and to facilitate connections to any necessary assistance and
services for individuals impacted by the  humanitarian crisis, including but not limited to language
translation services and housing and legal assistance ; and
(f) Providing financial assistance  to the department for equipment, contract services and
personnel expenses related  to the investigation and prosecution of unlawful marijuana culti-
vation or distribution operations .
SECTION 2.
This 2023 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the  public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is  declared to exist, and this 2023 Act takes effect
on its passage.
[2]