82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2024 Regular Session
Enrolled
Senate Concurrent Resolution 202
Sponsored by Senator WAGNER (Presession filed.)
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
(1) This resolution constitutes a  rule of proceeding of the Senate and the House of Represen-
tatives of the Eighty-second Legislative Assembly.
(2) The Senate and the House  of Representatives shall adhere to the following schedule and
deadlines for the 2024 regular session of the Eighty-second Legislative Assembly:
(a) The Senate and the House of Representatives shall convene in  regular session on February
5, 2024.
(b) Committee chairpersons shall schedule work sessions for measures in  the chamber of origin
no later than February 12, 2024. This paragraph does not  apply to the Joint Committee on Ways
and Means,  other joint committees, Senate Committee on Finance and Revenue, House Committee
on Revenue, Senate Committee on Rules, House Committee  on Rules, Senate Committee on Conduct
and House Committee on Conduct.
(c) Committees shall consider measures in the chamber of origin no later than February 19, 2024.
This paragraph does not apply to the Joint Committee on Ways and Means,  other joint committees,
Senate Committee on Finance and  Revenue, House Committee on Revenue, Senate Committee on
Rules, House Committee on Rules, Senate Committee on Conduct and House Committee on Conduct.
(d) Committee chairpersons shall schedule  work sessions for measures in the second chamber
no later than February 23, 2024. This paragraph does not  apply to the Joint Committee on Ways
and Means, other joint committees except  for the Joint Committee on Transportation, Senate Com-
mittee on Finance and Revenue, House Committee on Revenue, Senate Committee  on Rules, House
Committee on Rules, Senate Committee on Conduct and House Committee on Conduct.
(e) Committees shall consider measures in the second chamber no later than February  29, 2024.
This paragraph does not apply to the Joint Committee on Ways  and Means, other joint committees
except for the Joint Committee on Transportation, Senate  Committee on Finance and Revenue,
House Committee on Revenue, Senate Committee on Rules, House Committee on Rules, Senate
Committee on Conduct and House Committee on Conduct.
Enrolled Senate Concurrent Resolution 202 (SCR 202-INTRO) Page 1
Adopted by Senate February 5, 2024
Obadiah Rutledge, Secretary of Senate
Rob Wagner, President of Senate
Adopted by House February 5, 2024
Dan Rayfield, Speaker of House
Enrolled Senate Concurrent Resolution 202 (SCR 202-INTRO) Page 2