1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 3632
Sponsored by Representative EVANS
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act stops certain housing communities from  banning certain acts of free expression
in shared spaces and common areas.  The Act creates some exceptions. (Flesch Readability Score:
64.2).
Prohibits continuing care retirement communities  from banning certain acts of free expression
in community spaces or common areas of the continuing care retirement community.
Authorizes the Department of Human  Services to impose a civil penalty against a continuing
care retirement community that violates the prohibition.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to restrictions on expression in certain housing communities.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
Section 2 of this 2025 Act is added to and made a part of ORS chapter 101.
SECTION 2. (1) A continuing care retirement community  may not infringe upon a
person’s rights under the Constitution  of the United States and under the Constitution of the
State of Oregon, to freely express opinions and ideas, by prohibiting a person who resides  in
the continuing care retirement community from using community spaces or common  areas
to post signs or display information or to gather to  meet and discuss grievances or concerns.
(2) Notwithstanding subsection (1) of this section, a continuing  care retirement commu-
nity may:
(a) Enforce reasonable rules and regulations relating to  the time, place and scheduling
of meetings  in community spaces and common areas to prevent disruption of other residents’
enjoyment of the property.
(b) May  reasonably regulate the size of any signs and the length of time for which the
signs may be displayed.
(3) In addition to  the powers of the Department of Human Services under ORS 101.120,
the department may impose  a civil penalty against a continuing care retirement community
for a violation of the provisions of this section.  A civil penalty imposed under this section
may not exceed $10,000  for each violation, or in the case of a continuing violation, not more
than $1,000 for each day that the violation continues.
(4) Civil penalties under this section shall be imposed as provided in ORS 183.745.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 4226