1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
80th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2019 Regular Session
House Bill 3060
Sponsored by Representatives RESCHKE, NEARMAN; Representatives BONHAM,  BOSHART DAVIS, FINDLEY,
POST, SMITH G, ZIKA, Senators BAERTSCHIGER JR, BOQUIST, GIROD, KNOPP, LINTHICUM, THATCHER
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced.
Prohibits person from soliciting or  knowingly acquiring, receiving, transporting, implanting,
processing, preserving, storing or accepting donation of human fetal tissue for  purpose of trans-
planting the human fetal tissue into another person or animal under specified circumstances.
Punishes by maximum of five years’ imprisonment, $125,000 fine, or both.
Establishes Teen Pregnancy Assistance Fund and requires prosecuting attorney to deposit  pro-
ceeds of fines for  violation of Act into fund. Continuously appropriates moneys in fund to Depart-
ment of  Education for sole purpose of providing financial assistance to girls who are enrolled in high
school in this state, have had child while enrolled in high school and  need financial aid for expenses
connected with obtaining high school diploma.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to transfers of human fetal tissue.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) As used in this section:
(a) “Human fetal tissue” means tissue, cells or organs obtained from a dead human
embryo or fetus after a spontaneous abortion or after a stillbirth.
(b)(A) “Valuable consideration” means money or anything of value ordinarily used in ex-
change.
(B) “Valuable consideration” does not include reasonable payments associated with
transporting, implanting, processing, preserving or storing human fetal tissue.
(2) A person may not solicit or knowingly acquire, receive, transport,  implant, process,
preserve, store or accept a donation of human fetal tissue  for the purpose of transplanting
the human fetal tissue into another person or  animal in either of the following circum-
stances:
(a) The  human fetal tissue will be or is obtained pursuant to an induced abortion and the
person that solicits, acquires, receives, transports, implants, processes,  preserves, stores or
accepts the donation of human fetal tissue promises the  donor of the human fetal tissue that
the human fetal tissue will be implanted into a recipient specified  or unspecified by the in-
dividual; or
(b) The person provides the donor with valuable  consideration for the costs of the in-
duced or spontaneous abortion that resulted in the human  fetal tissue becoming available for
transplantation.
(3) A person that solicits, acquires, receives, transports, implants, processes,  preserves,
stores or accepts the donation  of human fetal tissue in violation of subsection (2) of this
section commits a Class C felony.
(4) A person that  receives valuable consideration as the result of a violation of subsection
(2) of this section is liable  for a civil penalty in an amount that is, at a minimum, double the
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1204
HB 3060
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
amount of the valuable consideration the person  received. A prosecuting attorney may bring
an action against the person  in a court of this state to recover the civil penalty. The prose-
cuting attorney shall deposit  the proceeds of the civil penalty with the State Treasury to the
credit of the Teen Pregnancy Assistance Fund.
SECTION 2. (1) The Teen Pregnancy  Assistance Fund is established in the State Treas-
ury, separate and distinct from  the General Fund. Interest earned by the Teen Pregnancy
Assistance Fund shall be credited to the fund.
(2) Moneys in the fund are continuously appropriated to the  Department of Education for
the sole purpose of providing financial assistance to girls who:
(a) Are enrolled in a high school in this state;
(b) Have had a child while enrolled in high school; and
(c) Need financial aid for expenses connected with obtaining a high school diploma.
[2]