1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 3112
Sponsored by Representatives OWENS, HELM (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act tells an agency to create a program for paying  people to give up certain ground
water rights. The Act gives money for the program. (Flesch Readability Score: 79.7).
Directs the Water Resources Commission to establish a program for compensating ground  water
right holders for voluntarily  relinquishing all or portions of ground water rights in basins designated
as critical ground water areas.
Appropriates moneys to the commission for the purpose of funding the program.
Declares an emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to the voluntary relinquishment of water rights; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Water Resources Commission shall establish a program for  com-
pensating ground water right holders for voluntarily relinquishing  all or a portion of the
holders’ ground water rights in basins designated  as critical ground water areas under ORS
537.730 to 537.740.
(2) The commission:
(a) May  compensate a ground water right holder under the program for up to the ap-
praised market value of a relinquished ground water right or portion of a ground water right.
(b) Shall incentivize participation in the program, which promotes the repurposing of
ground water otherwise used for irrigated agriculture in order to reduce ground water use,
to provide measurable benefits to the  environment, the economy or communities and to
minimize negative impacts of ground water use.
(c) Shall ensure that compensation under the program will:
(A) Result in measurable reductions in ground water use.
(B) Have a high likelihood of contributing to improved ground water conditions.
(3) The commission may  accept moneys or grants from federal or other governmental
entities, or from private or other sources, to support the program.
SECTION 2.
In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there is appropri-
ated to the Water Resources Commission, for the biennium beginning July 1, 2025, out  of the
General Fund, the amount of $______, which  may be expended for establishing and funding
the program described in section 1 of this 2025 Act.
SECTION 3. This 2025 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the  public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is  declared to exist, and this 2025 Act takes effect
on its passage.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2480