1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2218
Introduced and  printed pursuant to House Rule 12.00. Presession filed (at the request of House Interim Committee
on Behavioral Health and Health Care for Representative Rob Nosse)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act tells OHA and CCOs  to change the rate at which hospitals are reimbursed for
certain psychiatric services. (Flesch Readability Score: 62.8).
Requires the Oregon  Health Authority and coordinated care organizations to reimburse hospi-
tals for inpatient psychiatric services provided to medical assistance recipients at rates no  less than
the reimbursement rates for inpatient psychiatric rehabilitation provided by the Oregon  State Hos-
pital.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to reimbursement rates for inpatient psychiatric services.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
Section 2 of this 2025 Act is added to and made a part of ORS chapter 414.
SECTION 2. (1)(a) The Oregon Health Authority shall  establish fee-for-service re-
imbursement rates in the medical assistance program  for inpatient psychiatric services
provided by hospitals that are no less than the budgeted, per diem rates for inpatient  psy-
chiatric rehabilitation provided by the Oregon State Hospital.
(b) The authority shall adjust  the rates established under this subsection to correspond
with any increases in the rates paid for individuals receiving inpatient psychiatric rehabili-
tation at the Oregon State Hospital.
(2) A coordinated care organization shall reimburse hospitals for providing inpatient
psychiatric services at the rates established in subsection (1) of this section.
SECTION 3. Section 2 of this 2025 Act applies to contracts between  a coordinated care
organization and the Oregon Health Authority entered  into, amended or renewed on or after
the effective date of this 2025 Act.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2761