1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2024 Regular Session
House Bill 4158
Sponsored by Representatives NGUYEN  H, NGUYEN D, TRAN; Representatives REYNOLDS, RUIZ, WALTERS,
Senators FREDERICK, JAMA, MEEK, PATTERSON (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act would give money to a state  agency to help develop or improve child care in
the state. (Flesch Readability Score: 76.2).
Establishes the Home and Small Center Child Care Fund.
Directs the Oregon Business Development Department to administer a grant program  to provide
financial  assistance  to child care facilities that serve a maximum of 75 children for the purpose of
establishing or expanding child care infrastructure.
Appropriates moneys to the department for deposit in the fund to carry out the program.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to child care.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1)(a) The Home and Small Center Child Care  Fund is established in the
State Treasury, separate and distinct from the General Fund. Interest earned by  the Home
and Small Center Child Care Fund shall be credited to the fund.
(b) Moneys in the fund are continuously  appropriated to the Oregon Business Develop-
ment Department to carry out section 2 of this 2024 Act.
(c) The department shall administer the fund  in consultation with the Department of
Early Learning and Care.
(2) The fund shall consist of moneys credited to the fund, including:
(a) Moneys appropriated to the fund by the Legislative Assembly;
(b) Moneys transferred to the fund by the Oregon Business Development Department;
(c) Earnings on moneys in the fund;
(d) Moneys received from the federal or state government; and
(e) Moneys from any other source, including, but not limited to, grants and gifts.
SECTION 2.
(1) The Oregon Business Development Department  shall administer a grant
program to provide financial assistance to child care facilities, as defined in  ORS 329A.250,
that serve a maximum of 75 children for allowable costs expended to establish or expand
child care infrastructure in this state.
(2) The department shall coordinate with  the Department of Early Learning and Care and
consult with relevant stakeholders, including but not limited to nonprofit  and for-profit en-
tities that are directly or indirectly involved in child care throughout the state, to  collect
necessary information that may be used to facilitate the design and implementation of  the
program.
(3) For purposes of this section, allowable costs include but are not limited to:
(a) Costs for the planning and design of early learning and care facilities.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 50
HB 4158
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
(b) Costs  for property acquisition to be used for early learning and care facilities or child
care facility development projects.
(c) Repairs, improvements  and renovations to early learning and care facilities, including
climate resilience modifications, energy efficiency improvements, seismic retrofitting and
necessary repairs due to a natural disaster.
(d) Child care facility development projects, including direct project management costs.
(e) Construction costs and expenses.
(f) Costs related to providing support to organizations in the establishment or expansion
of child care providers and facilities.
(g) Other costs  that the Oregon Business Development Department, after consulting with
the Department of Early Learning and Care, determines to  be necessary to carry out this
section.
(4) In reviewing applications on a case-by-case basis under this section, the Oregon
Business Development Department shall:
(a) Give priority to applicants that commit to constructing a new child care facility that
will serve a  child population comprised of a minimum of 30 percent of children who receive
or are otherwise eligible to receive a child care subsidy.
(b) Distribute moneys in a manner that maximizes the development or expansion of child
care infrastructure in this state.
(5) In addition to the allowable costs under subsection (3) of this section, the department
may use  a maximum of 10 percent of the moneys appropriated to the department under
section 3 of this 2024 Act to:
(a) Pay administrative costs incurred by the department.
(b) Contract with third parties to provide technical assistance.
(6) If the funds available in the Home  and Small Center Child Care Fund are not adequate
to provide financial support to all  eligible applicants that have been approved by the depart-
ment to receive financial assistance under this section,  the department may prioritize dis-
tribution based on an applicant’s ability or demonstrated  commitment to provide any of the
following child care services to families with the greatest child care needs:
(a) Culturally and linguistically specific and appropriate early learning and care;
(b) Child care during nonstandard working hours such as evenings and weekends;
(c) Child care for infants and toddlers;
(d) Early learning and care that aligns with parent preferences; or
(e) Early  learning and care in communities that have historically experienced a lack of
accessible and affordable child care.
(7) The department, in consultation with the Department  of Early Learning and Care,
shall adopt rules to implement this section. At a minimum, the rules must include:
(a) An  application process by which an eligible applicant may apply for financial assist-
ance under this section;
(b) The terms and conditions for any agreements related  to financial assistance provided
under this section;
(c) A process for reviewing and approving applications submitted for financial  assistance
received under this section;
(d) The amount of financial assistance that may be provided to eligible applicants; and
(e) A process for establishing prioritizations upon which  the Oregon Business Develop-
[2]
HB 4158
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
ment Department may base the awarding of grants for financial assistance under this section
to eligible applicants located in  rural geographic areas and among historically underserved
communities.
SECTION 3.
In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there  is appropri-
ated to the Oregon Business  Development Department, for the biennium ending June 30,
2025, out of the General Fund,  the amount of $5,000,000, for deposit in the Home and Small
Center Child Care Fund established under section 1 of this 2024 Act.
[3]