1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2026 Regular Session
Senate Bill 1597
Sponsored by Senators  FREDERICK, MANNING JR, Representatives SANCHEZ, GAMBA; Senators GOLDEN,
JAMA, PROZANSKI, Representatives ANDERSEN, HELM, ISADORE, NELSON,  NGUYEN D, PHAM H, WISE
(Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Makes a power provider disclose the costs to store the waste made  from making electric
power. (Flesch Readability Score: 63.6).
Requires an  electric utility to disclose to its customers the costs of storing the waste produced
by an energy facility in generating electricity. Requires a person who develops  an energy facility
to disclose to the electric utility and the public the costs of storing  the waste produced by the en-
ergy facility in generating electricity.
Takes effect on the 91st day following adjournment sine die.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to energy generation; and prescribing an effective date.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
Section 2 of this 2026 Act is added to and made a part of ORS chapter 757.
SECTION 2. (1) As used in  this section, “electric utility” means a public utility, a people’s
utility district organized under ORS chapter 261, a municipal utility operating under ORS
chapter 225 or a cooperative organized under ORS chapter  62 that provides or delivers elec-
tricity service.
(2) An electric utility shall disclose to  its customers the costs of storing the waste
produced by an energy facility in generating electricity that the electric utility recovers in
the rates of the electric utility.
(3) Prior to developing the energy  facility, a person who seeks to develop an energy fa-
cility to generate electricity that is to be sold by an electric utility  shall disclose to the
electric utility and the public the costs  of storing the waste that will be produced by the
energy facility in generating electricity.
SECTION 3.
This 2026 Act takes effect on the 91st day after the date on  which the 2026
regular session of the Eighty-third Legislative Assembly adjourns sine die.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 260