1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
80th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2019 Regular Session
House Bill 3070
Sponsored by Representative RAYFIELD
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Extends maximum period Oregon Opportunity Grant may be renewed from equivalent of  four
full-time undergraduate years to equivalent of six full-time undergraduate years.
Authorizes Higher Education Coordinating Commission to award additional moneys to Oregon
Opportunity  Grant  recipients who can demonstrate that they experienced new economic hardship
after grant was awarded.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to higher education financial aid; amending ORS 348.260 and 348.263.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 348.260 is amended to read:
348.260. (1) In addition to any other form of student financial aid authorized  by law, the Higher
Education Coordinating Commission may award Oregon Opportunity Grants to qualified students.
(2) The amount of a grant shall equal the state share of  a qualified student’s cost of education
as determined by the Director of the Office of Student Access and Completion  and comply with ap-
plicable rules and procedures described in ORS 348.205.
(3) Grant funds  necessary to meet matching requirements for federal funds may also be used to
award grants to qualified students in any eligible post-secondary institution approved by the com-
mission.
(4) Grants may be awarded under this section to qualified  students enrolled for any term, in-
cluding summer term. The commission may prescribe the method and date or dates  by which a stu-
dent must apply to the commission to qualify for a grant.
(5)(a) A qualified student who  receives a grant under this section may apply for renewal of the
grant on an annual basis. The commission may not renew the grant if the qualified student has not
made a timely application for renewal of the grant.
(b) The commission shall by rule establish academic standards and  benchmarks that a qualified
student must meet to have the student’s grant renewed.
(c) If a qualified student who receives a grant under  this section makes a timely application for
renewal of the  grant, meets the academic standards and benchmarks established by the commission
under this subsection and continues to meet all other grant eligibility criteria, the  grant shall be
renewed for a second year of attendance at an eligible post-secondary institution.
(d) Upon timely application by a qualified student who meets the academic  standards and
benchmarks established by the commission under this subsection and  who continues to meet all
other grant eligibility criteria, the commission may continue to renew the grant  until the qualified
student has received  the equivalent of [ four] six  full-time undergraduate years of grant funding for
an eligible program as defined by the commission.
(6)(a) The Director of the Office of Student Access and  Completion shall inform eligible post-
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 3506
HB 3070
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
secondary institutions of the identity of qualified students who attend the  institution and who re-
ceive a grant under this section for more than one academic year.
(b) To the extent possible, eligible post-secondary institutions  shall ensure that qualified stu-
dents identified under this subsection are made aware of  the academic guidance and counseling
services available at the institution.
(7) A qualified student who receives a grant under this  section must attend the eligible post-
secondary institution upon which the grant  application is based unless the Director of the Office
of Student Access and Completion authorizes the grant to be used at a  different eligible post-
secondary institution. A qualified student who receives a grant under this section may attend  more
than one eligible post-secondary institution if the grant application was based on the  qualified stu-
dent attending more than one eligible post-secondary institution.
(8) The commission  may not make a grant award to any qualified student enrolled in a course
of study required for and leading to a degree in theology, divinity or religious education.
(9)(a) The commission shall report annually on or before February 1 to committees of the Leg-
islative Assembly related to higher education  regarding the academic success and performance of
qualified students who receive grants under this section.
(b) In order to meet the reporting requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this subsection:
(A) The commission shall by rule  design a method for evaluating the academic success and
performance of students who receive a grant under this section; and
(B) Upon a request  from the commission, eligible post-secondary institutions must provide the
commission with the data necessary for the commission to conduct its analysis.
SECTION 2.
 ORS 348.263 is amended to read:
348.263. (1) In addition to any other form of student financial aid authorized  by law, the Higher
Education Coordinating Commission may award moneys  from the Oregon Opportunity Grant pro-
gram to a qualified [ students] student:
(a) To reward student persistence and encourage completion of degree programs at eligible
post-secondary institutions[ .]; or
(b)(A) Who has been awarded a grant established under ORS 348.260; and
(B) Who can demonstrate, in a manner established by the commission by rule, that the
qualified student  has experienced an economic hardship that was not known at the time the
grant, or the renewal of the grant, was awarded.
(2) Awards made under this section are not subject to the maximum Oregon Opportunity  Grant
amount established under ORS 348.205.
(3) The commission shall establish by  rule eligibility criteria for awards made under this section.
These criteria shall include, but not be  limited to, whether the qualified student is attending an el-
igible post-secondary institution on a full-time or half-time basis.
(4)(a) The Director of the Office  of Student Access and Completion shall administer, and deter-
mine the size of, awards made under this section.
(b) In determining the size of awards made  under  subsection (1)(a) of this section, the director
shall consider basing the size of the awards  on a percentage of the maximum Oregon Opportunity
Grant amount established under ORS 348.205.
(c) In determining the size of  awards made under subsection (1)(b) of this section, the
director shall consider basing the size of the awards  on the amount necessary to allow the
qualified student to overcome the demonstrated economic  hardship and remain enrolled at
the student’s eligible post-secondary institution.
[2]
HB 3070
1
[3]