1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2770
Sponsored by Representative EVANS (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act creates a body to direct  the state’s response after an emergency. The Act lets
the Governor hire more people to do work during the emergency. (Flesch Readability Score: 61.5).
Establishes the  Oregon Disaster Recovery Authority. Provides that the Governor may activate
the authority when declaring a state of emergency. Directs the authority, when activated, to coor-
dinate initial crisis services, coordinate recovery and mitigation efforts  and coordinate the provision
of emergency aid to local governments or private entities.
Authorizes the Governor, when the authority is activated, to  hire additional state agency per-
sonnel to perform duties related to the emergency.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to emergency management.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Oregon Disaster Recovery Authority is established as an  advisory
group within the Office of the  Governor to direct emergency recovery in Oregon. The Gov-
ernor shall determine the membership of the authority, subject to  subsection (2) of this
section.
(2) The Governor shall appoint at least eight individuals to  serve as members of the au-
thority from among state agency  leadership, local emergency managers and others with ex-
pertise in  emergency management. The Governor shall seek the advice of the Oregon
Homeland Security Council when making appointments to the authority. Members of the
authority serve at the pleasure of the Governor.
(3) If the Governor declares a state  of emergency under ORS 401.165, the Governor may
activate the authority. The authority  remains activated until deactivated by order of the
Governor. The authority may remain activated notwithstanding the termination of  a state
of emergency.
(4) When activated, the authority shall:
(a) Coordinate initial crisis services;
(b) Coordinate recovery and mitigation efforts throughout this state,  using a framework
aligned with emergency support functions as defined by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency; and
(c) Coordinate the provision of emergency funding and other aid  to local governments or
private entities.
(5) A majority of the members  of the authority constitutes a quorum for the transaction
of business.
(6) Official action  by the authority requires the approval of a majority of the members
of the authority.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2434
HB 2770
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
(7) The Governor shall appoint one of the members of  the authority to serve as chair-
person.
(8) The authority  shall meet at times and places specified by the call of the Governor or
the chairperson. The authority may meet at times when the authority  is not activated to
maintain readiness in the event of an emergency.
(9) The authority may adopt rules necessary for the operation of the authority.
(10) The Office of the Governor shall provide staff support to the authority.
(11) Members of the authority are not entitled  to compensation or reimbursement for
expenses and serve as volunteers on the authority.
(12) All agencies of state government, as  defined in ORS 174.111, are directed to assist
the authority in the performance of the duties of the authority and, to the  extent permitted
by laws  relating to confidentiality, to furnish information and advice the members of the
authority consider necessary to perform their duties.
SECTION 2.
(1) If the Oregon Disaster  Recovery Authority established under section 1
of this 2025 Act is activated pursuant to a declaration of emergency, the Governor may  hire
additional state agency personnel under this section.
(2) Additional personnel hired under this section:
(a) May be placed at any state agency, including the Office of the Governor;
(b) Must perform duties related to the emergency, which may include taking over duties
previously performed by other state agency personnel  who have been reassigned to
emergency-related tasks; and
(c) Must have their employment terminated no later than the date the authority  is de-
activated under section 1 of this 2025 Act.
(3) Notwithstanding any  other law relating to state government employment, additional
personnel hired  under this section may be recruited and selected through any means the
Governor deems appropriate.
(4) The Governor’s hiring authority under this section  is subject to availability of fund-
ing. The compensation of additional personnel hired under  this section may be paid from the
Emergency Personnel Fund established under section 3 of this 2025 Act.
SECTION 3.
The Emergency Personnel  Fund is established in the State Treasury, sepa-
rate and distinct from the General Fund. The Emergency Personnel  Fund consists of moneys
appropriated, allocated, deposited or transferred to the fund by the Legislative Assembly or
otherwise. Moneys in the fund are continuously appropriated to the  Office of the Governor
to pay for compensation for personnel hired under section 2 of this 2025 Act.
[2]