1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 357
Sponsored by Senator SMITH DB (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act allows  ports to charge for the costs of removing sediment. (Flesch Readability
Score:  69.9).
Authorizes ports to assess  public bodies for a portion of the costs of removing sediment from
port waters.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to ports.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
Section 2 of this 2025 Act is added to and made a part of ORS chapter 777.
SECTION 2. (1) A port may assess one or more  public bodies for a portion of the costs
of removing sediment from port waters.
(2) A port may assess a public  body under this section only if the public body owns or
controls a culvert, creek or other  watercourse that discharged into port waters during the
calendar year prior to the calendar year in which the assessment is made.
(3) A port may assess public bodies under this section no more than once  per calendar
year. The assessment to a public body may not  exceed an amount equal to a fraction, the
numerator of which is the actual cost incurred  by the port for removing sediment in the
prior calendar year and the denominator of  which is one plus the number of public bodies
being assessed.
(4) A public body assessed under  this section shall promptly remit to the port the amount
assessed.
(5) As used in this section:
(a) “Port waters”  means waters owned or controlled by the port making an assessment
under this section.
(b) “Public body” has the meaning given that term in ORS 174.109.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1447