1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 472
Sponsored by Senator PROZANSKI (at the request of Pat Albright) (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Allows an ESD board to decide whether a school board has violated  a requirement re-
garding actual conflicts. The Act allows the school board to ask  the SBE to make a final decision.
(Flesch Readability Score: 62.6).
Authorizes an education service district board  to determine whether a district school board has
violated a requirement regarding actual conflicts of  interest. Authorizes a district school board to
request the State Board of Education to make a final determination regarding an alleged violation.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to actual conflicts of interest among members of a district school board.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
Section 2 of this 2025 Act is added to and made a part of ORS chapter 332.
SECTION 2. (1) Notwithstanding the provisions relating to an actual conflict of interest
under ORS 244.120 (2)(b)(B), if a district school board  member’s vote is necessary to meet a
requirement of a minimum  number of votes to take official action, the district school board
member must declare a conflict of interest and abstain from taking the official action.
(2) If the entire district school board is accused of  violating subsection (1) of this section,
the education service district board  for the education service district within which the school
district is located  shall receive any complaint alleging the violation and determine whether
the district school board has violated subsection (1) of this section.
(3) If an entire district school board is determined to be  in violation of subsection (1) of
this section  by the education service district board under subsection (2) of this section, the
district school board may request the State Board of Education to make a final determi-
nation.
(4) Failure to comply with subsection (1) of this section:
(a) May be cause for the imposition of a civil penalty  under ORS 244.350 as a violation
of ORS chapter 244; and
(b) Notwithstanding ORS 244.130 (2), may be cause for a decision or action to be voided.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1695