1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Joint Resolution 34
Sponsored by Senator GOLDEN
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The measure suggests a change  to the Constitution to make a fund for wildfires. (Flesch
Readability Score: 71.7).
Proposes an amendment to  the Oregon Constitution to create a fund to be expended for wildfire
prevention, suppression or management.
Refers the proposed amendment to the people for their approval or rejection at the next regular
general election.
JOINT RESOLUTION
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
PARAGRAPH 1.
 The Constitution of the State of Oregon is amended by creating a new  section
12 to be added to and made a part of Article XV, such section to read:
SECTION 12. (1) There is created a wildfire prevention and management fund. Moneys
in the fund may be invested and the earnings shall be retained in the fund or expended as
provided by the Legislative Assembly.
(2) The Legislative Assembly may by law appropriate, allocate or transfer  moneys or re-
venue to the wildfire prevention and management fund.
(3) The Legislative Assembly may appropriate, allocate or transfer moneys  in the wildfire
prevention and management fund and earnings on moneys in  the fund for purposes related
to the prevention, suppression or management of wildfires in Oregon.
PARAGRAPH 2.
The amendment proposed by this resolution shall be submitted to the
people for their approval or rejection at the next  regular general election held throughout
this state.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 4505