1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2024 Regular Session
Senate Bill 1513
Printed pursuant to  Senate Interim Rule 213.28 by order of the President of the Senate in conformance with pre-
session filing rules,  indicating neither advocacy nor opposition on the part of the President (at the request
of Senate Interim Committee on Labor and Business)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Makes BOLI study and report on laws that allow workers  to take job-protected time off
from work. (Flesch Readability Score: 65.1).
Requires the Bureau of Labor and Industries to  study issues related to the different federal and
state laws under which a worker may take job-protected leave from work for  qualifying reasons.
Requires the bureau to submit a report to the interim committees of the Legislative Assembly  re-
lated to labor and business not later than September 15, 2025.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to laws concerning job-protected leave from work.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
The Bureau of Labor and Industries shall study issues related to  the differ-
ent federal and state laws under which workers may take job-protected leave from work for
qualifying reasons. The bureau shall  submit a report in the manner provided by ORS 192.245,
and may include recommendations for legislation,  to the interim committees of the Legisla-
tive Assembly related to labor and business no later than September 15, 2025.
SECTION 2. Section 1 of this 2024 Act is repealed on January 2, 2026.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 221