1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2023 Regular Session
Senate Bill 582
Sponsored by Senators WAGNER, LIEBER; Representative FAHEY (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Requires state agency that authorizes or funds, in whole or in part, installation  of electric ve-
hicle  charging  system located on customer’s side of meter to require installing contractor or con-
tractors  to  hold all legally required licenses and one or more electricians who hold Electric Vehicle
Infrastructure Training Program certification  to supervise or participate in installation.  Requires
state agency to require 25 percent of electricians who are present and working on installation to
hold Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Training Program certifications when installation is  for electric
vehicle charging port on customer’s side of meter that will supply 25 or more kilowatts to vehicle.
Requires Electrical and Elevator Board  to approve Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Training
Program as continuing education program.
Requires Bureau of Labor and Industries to  establish program to reimburse individuals who
successfully complete Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Training Program and pass certification  exam
for amount of cost of course and exam incurred by individual.  Appropriates  moneys from General
Fund to bureau for purposes of payments of grants made under program established by bureau.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to the Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Training Program.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) As used in this section:
(a) “Electric vehicle charging system”  includes any system, device or related
infrastructure needed for the delivery of electrical  current for the purpose of charging one
or more electric vehicles.
(b) “Single-family dwelling” means a residential structure designed for one family and
sharing no common wall with another residence of any type.
(c) “State agency”  means any state office, department, division, bureau, board or com-
mission or any other state agency.
(2)(a) A state agency that authorizes or funds, in whole or in part, the installation of an
electric vehicle charging system to be located on the customer’s side of the meter shall re-
quire as a condition of the authorization or funding that:
(A) The electric vehicle charging system be installed by a contractor  or contractors who
hold all licenses legally required to perform the installation work; and
(B) One or more electricians who  hold an Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Training Pro-
gram certification supervise or participate in the installation work for any  period electrical
installation work is being performed.
(b) In addition to the requirements under paragraph (a)  of this subsection, when the in-
stallation is for an electric vehicle charging system to be located on  the customer’s side of
the meter that will supply 25 or more kilowatts to an electric  vehicle, the state agency shall
require that at least  25 percent of electricians who are present and working on the installa-
tion hold Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Training Program certifications.
(3) The requirements under this section do not apply  to the installation of an electric
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1045
SB 582
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
vehicle charging system for a single-family dwelling that  will use an existing 208-volt or
240-volt outlet.
SECTION 2.
The Electrical  and Elevator Board shall approve the Electric Vehicle
Infrastructure Training Program as  a continuing education program that meets the contin-
uing education standards established by the board under ORS 479.680 (1).
SECTION 3. (1) The Bureau of Labor and Industries shall  establish a program to provide
one-time grants to reimburse individuals who  successfully complete the Electric Vehicle
Infrastructure Training Program (EVITP) and pass the EVITP certification exam. The
amount of a grant awarded under this subsection shall  be for the cost of the EVITP course
and certification exam actually incurred by the individual.
(2) The Commissioner of the Bureau of Labor and Industries  may adopt rules to carry
out this section.
SECTION 4.
There is appropriated to the Bureau of  Labor and Industries, for the
biennium beginning July 1, 2023, out of the General Fund, the amount of $  for the
purpose of making grants under the program established  pursuant to section 3 of this 2023
Act.
[2]