83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Enrolled
Senate Resolution 3
Sponsored by Senator WAGNER; Senator REYNOLDS
Whereas pioneering ophthalmic surgeon Dr. Mark Terry has been the  Director of Corneal Ser-
vices at the Devers Eye Institute in Portland, Oregon, since 1990, and his leadership  at Devers and
at the  Oregon Lions VisionGift Research Laboratory has improved patient outcomes and advanced
medical research for three and a half decades; and
Whereas Dr. Terry is also a Professor of Clinical Ophthalmology  at Oregon Health and Science
University, and he has lectured extensively internationally  and widely published his research work
in the areas of corneal transplantation, corneal  physiology, refractive surgery, dry eye and
endophthalmitis; and
Whereas in 2000, Dr. Terry began the first U.S. clinical series of endothelial keratoplasty  (EK),
and along with the international Endothelial Keratoplasty Group, which he founded in 2002,  he has
continued to pioneer the further development of EK,  with over 100 publications on deep lamellar
endothelial keratoplasty (DLEK), descemet  stripping endothelial keratoplasty (DSEK), descemet
stripping automated endothelial keratoplasty (DSAEK) and descemet membrane  endothelial
keratoplasty (DMEK); and
Whereas Dr. Terry’s groundbreaking surgical techniques and tools  have transformed corneal
transplantation, giving hope to patients who had resigned themselves to lifelong sightlessness; and
Whereas Dr. Terry’s work with infant patient Paxton Call, who was previously  believed to be
destined to a life of isolation, completely transformed the young boy’s life, as well as the lives of
those who loved and cared for him; and
Whereas Dr.  Terry’s dedication to training ophthalmic surgeons worldwide has drastically im-
proved eye care in communities around the globe and ensured the methods he has developed  will
continue to enhance quality of life for vision-challenged patients for generations to come; and
Whereas driven by his  pediatrician father before him, who showed him the meaning of
compassionate care, as well as by his dedication to his special needs  son, Nicholas, Dr. Terry has
built empathy into the core of every single one of his patient relationships, setting an  example for
all medical professionals working with patients with disabilities; now, therefore,
Be It Resolved by the Senate of the State of Oregon:
That we, the members of the Senate of  the Eighty-third Legislative Assembly, commend Dr.
Mark Terry for his unrivaled contributions  to ophthalmology and medical research; and be it further
Resolved, That we recognize and celebrate his  pioneering advancements in corneal transplan-
tation and his lasting impact on vision restoration and public health in Oregon  and around the
globe.
Adopted by Senate May 19, 2025
Obadiah Rutledge, Secretary of Senate
Rob Wagner, President of Senate
Enrolled Senate Resolution 3 (SR 3-INTRO) Page 1