82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2024 Regular Session
Enrolled
Senate Bill 1561
Sponsored by Senator STEINER,  Representative HELM, Senator DEMBROW, Representatives
BOICE, MARSH; Senators FINDLEY, GOLDEN, HANSELL, JAMA, PATTERSON,
PROZANSKI, SMITH DB, SOLLMAN, TAYLOR,  WOODS, Representatives DEXTER, GAMBA,
HARTMAN,  HOLVEY,  KROPF, LEVY B, LIVELY, NELSON, NERON, NGUYEN D, NOSSE,
OWENS, PHAM H, PHAM K, TRAN, WALTERS (Presession filed.)
CHAPTER .................................................
AN ACT
Relating to the administration of moneys received from  the Monsanto settlement; creating new
provisions; repealing ORS 466.445 and 466.447; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) It is the intent of the Legislative Assembly in enacting  sections 1 to 12
of this 2024 Act to:
(a) Establish the Oregon Environmental Restoration Fund  in the State Treasury, con-
sisting of moneys paid to the state from the Monsanto Settlement Agreement;
(b) Provide for the investment of settlement funds and for the expenditure  of earnings
from those investments in an equitable, transparent and accountable manner; and
(c) Ensure that,  consistent with the terms of the Monsanto Settlement Agreement,
earnings are used to supplement efforts by recognized tribal governments,  executive branch
agencies and disproportionately impacted  communities for environmental remediation or
restitutionary projects or purposes having a  nexus with environmental harms to air, water,
soil or other  natural resources or human health caused by environmental contamination,
particularly the presence of PCB.
(2) It is the  intent of the Legislative Assembly that projects or purposes for which allo-
cations or transfers made under sections 1  to 12 of this 2024 Act be consistent with the
terms of the Monsanto Settlement Agreement.
SECTION 2. As used in sections 1 to 12 of this 2024 Act:
(1) “Disproportionately impacted community” means communities that have been dis-
proportionately impacted by PCB  or other contaminants or that have been historically
underrepresented in public processes regarding environmental laws or policies and as further
defined by the Environmental Restoration Council by rule under section 7 of this 2024 Act.
(2) “Monsanto Settlement Agreement”  means the settlement agreement between the
State of Oregon  and Monsanto Company, Pharmacia LLC and Solutia, Inc., effective De-
cember 15, 2022, and any modifications thereto.
(3) “PCB” has the meaning given that term in ORS 466.505.
SECTION 3.
(1) The Oregon  Environmental Restoration Fund is established in the State
Treasury, separate and distinct  from the General Fund. The Oregon Environmental Resto-
ration Fund consists of:
Enrolled Senate Bill 1561 (SB 1561-B) Page 1
(a) Proceeds from the Monsanto Settlement Agreement;
(b) Moneys transferred to the fund by the Legislative Assembly; and
(c) Other amounts deposited in the fund from any other public or private source.
(2) Moneys in the Oregon  Environmental Restoration Fund are continuously appropriated
to the Oregon Watershed Enhancement Board to be  expended, consistent with the terms of
the Monsanto Settlement Agreement, for the following purposes:
(a) To pay the  expenses of the board and the Environmental Restoration Council incurred
in the administration of sections 1 to 12 of this 2024 Act; and
(b) To carry out section 4 of this 2024 Act.
(3) Moneys in the Oregon Environmental Restoration Fund shall be  invested as provided
in ORS 293.701 to 293.857 and the earnings from such  investments shall be credited to the
fund.
(4) The  Oregon Watershed Enhancement Board shall administer the Oregon Environ-
mental Restoration Fund.
(5) In addition to services  provided as the investment officer for the Oregon Investment
Council under ORS 293.716, the State Treasurer shall provide accounting services specific  to
the Oregon Environmental Restoration Fund.
SECTION 4.
(1) The Environmental Restoration Council shall, based on the  advice of the
State Treasurer, establish a long-term distribution  policy for the Oregon Environmental
Restoration Fund that seeks to maintain a stable real asset value  over time while providing
for the transfers described in subsections (3) and (4) of this section.
(2) No later than December  1 of each year, the Environmental Restoration Council shall
determine the amounts that shall be transferred from the Oregon  Environmental Restora-
tion Fund by the Oregon Watershed Enhancement Board for the purposes of  subsections (3)
and (4) of this section. The amounts to  be transferred shall be based on the balance of the
Oregon Environmental Restoration Fund at the end of the prior fiscal year.
(3) First, the board shall transfer from the Oregon Environmental Restoration Fund  the
amount reasonably necessary to cover  the costs of the board and the Environmental Resto-
ration Council in the administration  of sections 1 to 12 of this 2024 Act. The amount trans-
ferred under this subsection may not exceed 0.25 percent of  the Oregon Environmental
Restoration Fund balance at the end of the prior fiscal year, unless a greater amount  is ap-
proved by the Environmental Restoration Council.
(4) Second, the board shall transfer from the Oregon Environmental Restoration Fund
the amount determined pursuant to the long-term distribution policy  developed under sub-
section (1) of this section, to be allocated as follows:
(a) Fifty percent shall be  transferred to the State Agency Program Fund established
under section 10 of this 2024 Act;
(b) Twenty-five  percent shall be transferred to the Disproportionately Impacted Com-
munity Fund established under section 11 of this 2024 Act; and
(c) Twenty-five  percent shall be transferred to the Tribal Nation Natural Resource Pro-
gram Fund established under section 12 of this 2024 Act.
SECTION 5. (1) The Environmental Restoration Council is established in the  Oregon
Watershed Enhancement Board. The council consists of 11 members as follows:
(a) The Governor or the Governor’s designee.
(b) The Director of the Department of Environmental Quality or the director’s  designee.
(c) The State Fish and Wildlife Director or the director’s designee.
(d) The Director of the Oregon Health Authority or the director’s designee.
(e) The Attorney General or the Attorney General’s designee.
(f)(A) Six members, appointed by the Governor, who have expertise and a  demonstrated
interest in environmental  remediation and the impacts from contamination to water, air or
land on people or  the environment. The Governor shall endeavor to appoint members with
complimentary expertise under this paragraph.
Enrolled Senate Bill 1561 (SB 1561-B) Page 2
(B) Of the members appointed under this paragraph,  at least two must possess scientific
expertise with the environmental  or human health impacts of PCB or other similar sub-
stances in the environment.
(C) Council members appointed under subparagraph (B) of this  paragraph need not reside
in Oregon.
(g) A member of the Senate appointed by the President of the Senate to  be a nonvoting
advisory member of the council.
(h) A member  of the House of Representatives appointed by the Speaker of the House
of Representatives to be a nonvoting advisory member of the council.
(2) The term  of office of each member of the council appointed by the Governor is four
years, but a member serves at the pleasure of  the Governor. A member is eligible for reap-
pointment but  may not serve more than two consecutive terms. If there is a vacancy for
any cause, the Governor shall  make an appointment to become immediately effective for the
unexpired term.
(3) Each legislative member serves at the pleasure of the appointing authority  and may
serve as long as the  member remains in the chamber of the Legislative Assembly from which
the member was appointed.
(4) The Governor shall appoint a member of the council to serve as chairperson.
(5) A majority of the voting members of the council constitutes a quorum for the trans-
action of business.
(6) The council shall meet annually at the time and place specified by the chairperson
or of a majority of the members of the council. The council may  meet at other times and
places as determined by the chairperson or a majority of the members of the council.
(7) The Oregon Watershed Enhancement Board shall provide  staff support to the council.
The board may enter  into agreements with other state agencies to provide additional staff
support to the council.
(8)(a) The council may create advisory committees as necessary to advise the  council on
carrying out the functions of the council.
(b) The council may appoint to an  advisory committee any person that the council de-
termines possesses expertise or information that  may assist the council in the performance
of its duties.
(9)(a) Voting  members of the council, and members of an advisory committee appointed
under subsection (8) of this section who are not  members of the council, may be reimbursed
for actual  and necessary travel and other expenses incurred by the member in the perform-
ance of official duties in the same manner and amount as provided by ORS 292.495.
(b) Members of the council who are members of the Legislative  Assembly are entitled to
payment of  compensation and expenses as provided in ORS 171.072, payable from funds ap-
propriated to the Legislative Assembly.
(10) The council shall submit a report each biennium to the Governor and the Legislative
Assembly in the  manner provided by ORS 192.245. The report must describe the purposes for
which moneys expended from the State  Agency Program Fund established under section 10
of this 2024 Act, the Disproportionately Impacted Community Fund  established under section
11 of this 2024 Act and the Tribal Nation Natural Resource Program Fund established under
section 12 of this 2024 Act were used and the outcomes achieved by funding recipients.
(11) In accordance with the provisions of ORS chapter  183, the council may adopt rules
necessary for the administration of the laws that the council is charged with administering.
SECTION 6.
(1) The Environmental Restoration Council shall establish  by rule proce-
dures and  criteria for approving allocations to state agencies that have a nexus with the
projects and purposes described in the Monsanto Settlement Agreement from the  State
Agency Program Fund established under section 10 of this 2024 Act.
Enrolled Senate Bill 1561 (SB 1561-B) Page 3
(2)(a) Allocations approved by the council under this section must be  for projects or
purposes that are consistent  with the terms of the Monsanto Settlement Agreement and the
strategic priorities established under section 9 of this 2024 Act.
(b) Allocations may be used to supplement existing programs or projects but  may not be
used to supplant moneys available from any other source.
(c) Allocations may be used as  matching funds for federal moneys or moneys available
from any other source.
(3) Rules adopted under this section shall include but need not be limited to:
(a) Procedures for soliciting and reviewing applications from state agencies;
(b) Criteria for  projects or purposes funded by allocations, including desired outcomes;
and
(c)(A) A requirement that each agency that receives an allocation from  the State Agency
Program Fund biennially report on the amount of allocated funds expended by the agency
and the outcome of those expenditures.
(B) Reporting requirements:
(i) Must be developed after consultation with  state agencies likely to receive proposed
allocations under this section; and
(ii) As far as practicable, must be consistent with reporting requirements adopted  under
sections 7 and 8 of this 2024 Act.
(4) The Oregon Watershed Enhancement Board shall allocate  amounts from the State
Agency Program Fund  established under section 10 of this 2024 Act at the direction of the
council, in accordance with rules adopted by the council under this section.
SECTION 7.
(1) The Environmental Restoration Council shall establish by  rule a program
to provide grants to  public or private nonprofit entities to carry out projects that benefit
disproportionately impacted communities. Rules adopted under this section shall include  but
need not be limited to:
(a) Procedures for soliciting and reviewing applications from public  or private nonprofit
entities;
(b) Eligibility criteria for nonprofit entities;
(c) Eligible purposes for which grants may be awarded;
(d) Guidelines for collaborations or partnerships between multiple entities; and
(e)(A) Reporting requirements for grant recipients.
(B) Reporting requirements:
(i) Must be developed  after consultation with nonprofit entities likely to receive grants
under this section; and
(ii) As far as practicable, be consistent with  reporting requirements adopted under
sections 6 and 8 of this 2024 Act.
(2) Grants awarded under this section:
(a) Must be awarded for  projects or purposes that are consistent with the terms of the
Monsanto Settlement Agreement  and the strategic priorities established under section 9 of
this 2024 Act.
(b) May be used to supplement existing programs or projects but may not  be used to
supplant moneys available from any other source.
(c) May be used as matching funds for federal  moneys or moneys available from any
other source.
(3) The council may contract with a third-party  entity to implement and serve as the
administrator of the grant program established under this section.
(4) Grants awarded under this section shall be paid out of the Disproportionately Im-
pacted Community Fund established under section 11 of this 2024  Act by the Oregon
Watershed Enhancement Board in accordance with rules adopted  by the council under this
section.
Enrolled Senate Bill 1561 (SB 1561-B) Page 4
SECTION 8. (1) The Environmental Restoration Council shall establish  by rule proce-
dures for  the transfer of moneys from the Tribal Nation Natural Resource Program Fund
established under section 12 of this 2024 Act to federally recognized Indian tribes in this state
at the beginning of each biennium.
(2) Transfers made pursuant to this section:
(a) Must be for projects or purposes consistent  with the terms of the Monsanto Settle-
ment Agreement.
(b) Must be made in  equal amounts to each of the nine federally recognized Indian tribes
in this state, unless a  different proportion is provided for by the council by rule, consistent
with recommendations of the Commission on Indian Services.
(c) May be used to supplement existing programs or projects but may not be  used to
supplant moneys available from any other source.
(d) May be used as matching funds for federal moneys  or moneys available from any
other source.
(3)(a) Rules adopted under this section  shall include, but need not be limited to, a re-
quirement that each federally recognized Indian tribe that  receives a transfer from the
Tribal Nation Natural Resource Program Fund  biennially report on the amount of funds ex-
pended by the tribe and the outcome of those expenditures.
(b) Reporting requirements:
(A) Must be developed after consultation with tribal governments; and
(B) As far as practicable, must be consistent  with reporting requirements adopted under
sections 6 and 7 of this 2024 Act.
(4) The Oregon Watershed Enhancement Board shall transfer amounts from the Tribal
Nation Natural Resource Program Fund established under section 12 of this 2024 Act  in ac-
cordance with rules adopted under this section.
SECTION 9.
(1) The Environmental Restoration Council, in consultation  with state
agencies described in section 6 (1) of this 2024 Act and the Environmental Justice Council,
shall establish strategic priorities for amounts  expended from the State Agency Program
Fund established under section 10 of  this 2024 Act and the Disproportionately Impacted
Community Fund established under section 11 of  this 2024 Act. Before adopting strategic
priorities, the Environmental Restoration Council shall compile and review  relevant data or
other scientific information.
(2) Strategic priorities may include guidelines for  distributing amounts on an annual or
biennial basis, and for committing to funding projects for  more than one biennium, as ap-
propriate for facilitating program outcomes and continuity.
(3) Priorities established under this section are not subject to the  requirements of ORS
chapter 183.
(4) The council may only establish or amend priorities  under this section after a public
hearing and an opportunity for public comment.
SECTION 10.
(1) The State Agency Program Fund is established in the State Treasury,
separate and distinct from the General Fund. Interest  earned by the fund shall be credited
to the fund.
(2) Moneys in  the State Agency Program Fund consist of moneys transferred to the fund
under section 4 of this 2024 Act and moneys  deposited or transferred into the fund from any
other public or private source.
(3) Moneys in the State Agency Program Fund are continuously appropriated to  the
Oregon Watershed Enhancement Board for the purpose of  making allocations in amounts
and for durations approved by the Environmental Restoration Council under section  6 of this
2024 Act. To facilitate program outcomes and continuity, moneys in the fund may be com-
mitted for funding state agency projects or programs for multiple biennia.
Enrolled Senate Bill 1561 (SB 1561-B) Page 5
(4) At the close of  each biennium, any amounts in the State Agency Program Fund that
are unexpended, unobligated and not subject  to any conditions shall revert to the Oregon
Environmental Restoration Fund established under section 3 of this 2024 Act.
(5) The Oregon Watershed Enhancement Board shall administer the State Agency Pro-
gram Fund.
SECTION 11. (1) The Disproportionately Impacted Community Fund is established in the
State Treasury, separate and distinct from  the General Fund. Interest earned by the fund
shall be credited to the fund.
(2) Moneys in the Disproportionately Impacted Community Fund  consist of moneys
transferred to the  fund under section 4 of this 2024 Act and moneys deposited or transferred
into the fund from any other public or private source.
(3) Moneys in the  Disproportionately Impacted Community Fund are continuously ap-
propriated to the Oregon Watershed Enhancement Board for the  purpose of providing grants
under section 7 of this 2024 Act, as directed by the Environmental Restoration Council.
(4) At  the close of each biennium, any amounts in the Disproportionately Impacted
Community Fund that are unexpended, unobligated and not subject to  any conditions shall
revert to the Oregon Environmental Restoration Fund established under section  3 of this
2024 Act.
(5) The Oregon Watershed Enhancement Board shall administer  the Disproportionately
Impacted Community Fund.
SECTION 12. (1) The Tribal Nation Natural  Resource Program Fund is established in the
State Treasury, separate and distinct from the General Fund.  Interest earned by the fund
shall be credited to the fund.
(2) Moneys in the Tribal  Nation Natural Resource Program Fund consist of moneys
transferred to the  fund under section 4 of this 2024 Act and moneys deposited or transferred
into the fund from any other public or private source.
(3) Moneys in the Tribal  Nation Natural Resource Program Fund are continuously ap-
propriated to the Oregon Watershed  Enhancement Board for the purpose of making trans-
fers to federally recognized Indian tribes under section 8 of this 2024 Act.
(4) At the close of each biennium,  any amounts in the Tribal Nation Natural Resource
Program Fund that are unexpended, unobligated and not subject to any conditions shall re-
vert to  the Oregon Environmental Restoration Fund established under section 3 of this 2024
Act.
(5) The Oregon Watershed Enhancement Board shall administer the Tribal Nation  Na-
tural Resource Program Fund.
SECTION 13.
Notwithstanding section 4 of this 2024 Act, the Environmental Restoration
Council shall first determine the amounts to be transferred under section 4 of  this 2024 Act
no later than December 1, 2025.
SECTION 14. Notwithstanding the term of office specified in section 5 (2) of this 2024 Act,
of the members  of the Environmental Restoration Council first appointed by the Governor
under section 5 (1)(e) of this 2024 Act:
(1) Two shall serve a term of two years; and
(2) Two shall serve a term of three years.
SECTION 15.
No later than September 15, 2073, the Environmental Restoration Council
shall submit a report to the interim committees  of the Legislative Assembly related to the
environment in the manner provided by ORS 192.245. The report  must evaluate and make
recommendations as to  whether the long-term distribution strategy developed by the council
under section 4 of this 2024 Act should continue to seek to maintain a stable real  asset value
over time, notwithstanding the amendments to section 4  of this 2024 Act by section 16 of this
2024 Act, or whether the distribution  strategy should seek to distribute amounts from the
Oregon Environmental Restoration Fund so that no balance  remains in the fund after a pe-
riod of 50 years.
Enrolled Senate Bill 1561 (SB 1561-B) Page 6
SECTION 16.  Section 4 of this 2024 Act is amended to read:
Sec. 4.  (1) The Environmental Restoration Council shall, based on the advice of  the State
Treasurer, establish a long-term distribution policy for the Oregon  Environmental Restoration Fund
that [ seeks to maintain a stable real asset value  over time while providing ] provides for the transfers
described in subsections (3) and (4) of this section.
(2) No later than December 1 of each  year, the Environmental Restoration Council shall deter-
mine the amounts that shall be transferred from the Oregon Environmental Restoration Fund  by the
Oregon Watershed Enhancement Board  for the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section.
The amounts to be  transferred shall be based on the balance of the Oregon Environmental Resto-
ration Fund at the end of the prior fiscal year.
(3) First, the board shall transfer from the Oregon Environmental Restoration  Fund the amount
reasonably necessary to cover the costs of the board and  the Environmental Restoration Council in
the administration of sections 1 to 12 of  this 2024 Act. The amount transferred under this subsection
may not  exceed 0.25 percent of the Oregon Environmental Restoration Fund balance at the end of
the prior fiscal year, unless a greater amount is approved by the Environmental Restoration Council.
(4) Second, the board shall transfer from the Oregon Environmental Restoration Fund  the
amount determined pursuant to the long-term distribution  policy developed under subsection (1) of
this section, to be allocated as follows:
(a) Fifty percent shall be transferred to the State Agency  Program Fund established under sec-
tion 10 of this 2024 Act;
(b) Twenty-five percent  shall be transferred to the Disproportionately Impacted Community Fund
established under section 11 of this 2024 Act; and
(c) Twenty-five percent shall be  transferred to the Tribal Nation Natural Resource Program
Fund established under section 12 of this 2024 Act.
SECTION 17. The amendments to section 4 of this 2024 Act by section 16 of this 2024 Act
become operative on January 1, 2075.
SECTION 18. (1) For the biennium ending June 30, 2025, the  Oregon Department of Ad-
ministrative Services shall distribute moneys in the Polychlorinated  Biphenyls Remediation
and Restitution Account established under ORS 466.447 as described in subsection (2) of  this
section.
(2) There is allocated for the biennium ending June 30,  2025, from the Polychlorinated
Biphenyls Remediation and  Restitution Account, the amount of $5,000,000, to the Oregon
Watershed Enhancement Board to implement sections 1 to 12 of this 2024 Act.
SECTION 19. Notwithstanding ORS 466.447, the Oregon Department of Administrative
Services shall transfer all moneys in the  Polychlorinated Biphenyls Remediation and
Restitution Account established under ORS  466.447, except for the amount allocated under
section 18 (2) of this 2024 Act, to the Oregon  Environmental Restoration Fund established
under section 3 of this 2024 Act, to be expended for the purposes described  in section 3 of
this 2024 Act.
SECTION 20. The Polychlorinated Biphenyls Remediation and Restitution Account es-
tablished under ORS 466.447 is abolished. Any moneys remaining in the account on the op-
erative date of  this section shall be transferred to the Oregon Environmental Restoration
Fund established under section 3 of this 2024 Act.
SECTION 21. ORS 466.445 and 466.447 are repealed.
SECTION 22. Section 20 of this 2024 Act and the repeal of  ORS 466.445 and 466.447 by
section 21 of this 2024 Act become operative on January 2, 2026.
SECTION 23. Notwithstanding any other law  limiting expenditures, the limitation on ex-
penditures established by section 7 (1), chapter 603, Oregon Laws 2023, for  the biennium
ending June 30, 2025, as the maximum limit for payment  of expenses from fees, moneys or
other revenues, including Miscellaneous Receipts but excluding lottery funds and  federal
funds, collected or received  by the Oregon Watershed Enhancement Board, for operations,
is increased by $1,322,956, to carry out the provisions of sections 1 to 12 of this 2024 Act.
Enrolled Senate Bill 1561 (SB 1561-B) Page 7
SECTION 24. Notwithstanding any other law limiting  expenditures, the limitation on ex-
penditures established by  section 1 (1), chapter 365, Oregon Laws 2023, for the biennium
ending June 30, 2025, as the maximum  limit for payment of expenses from fees, moneys or
other revenues,  including Miscellaneous Receipts but excluding lottery funds and federal
funds, collected or received by the State Treasurer, for administrative services, is increased
by $175,221, to carry out the provisions of sections 1 to 12 of this 2024 Act.
SECTION 25.
Notwithstanding any other law  limiting expenditures, the limitation on ex-
penditures established by section 2 (3), chapter 452, Oregon Laws 2023, for  the biennium
ending June 30, 2025, as the maximum limit for payment  of expenses from fees, moneys or
other revenues, including Miscellaneous Receipts, the proceeds of bonds for the Orphan  Site
Account and federal funds from congestion mitigation  and air quality grants, drinking water
protection, laboratory accreditation and woodstove grants and for  smoke monitoring labo-
ratory services, but excluding lottery funds and federal funds not described in  section 2,
chapter 452, Oregon Laws  2023, collected or received by the Department of Environmental
Quality, for land  quality, is increased by $141,727, to carry out the provisions of sections 1
to 12 of this 2024 Act.
SECTION 26. Notwithstanding any other law limiting  expenditures, the limitation on ex-
penditures established by  section 2 (7), chapter 590, Oregon Laws 2023, for the biennium
ending June 30, 2025, as the maximum  limit for payment of expenses from fees, moneys or
other revenues,  including Miscellaneous Receipts and including federal funds from the Pacific
Coastal Salmon Recovery  Fund, but excluding lottery funds and federal funds not described
in section 2, chapter 590, Oregon Laws 2023,  collected or received by the State Department
of Fish and Wildlife, for the Habitat Division, is  increased by $137,568, to carry out the pro-
visions of sections 1 to 12 of this 2024 Act.
SECTION 27. This 2024 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation  of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist, and  this 2024 Act takes effect
on its passage.
Passed by Senate March 4, 2024
..................................................................................
Obadiah Rutledge, Secretary of Senate
..................................................................................
Rob Wagner, President of Senate
Passed by House March 6, 2024
..................................................................................
Dan Rayfield, Speaker of House
Received by Governor:
........................M.,........................................................., 2024
Approved:
........................M.,........................................................., 2024
..................................................................................
Tina Kotek, Governor
Filed in Office of Secretary of State:
........................M.,........................................................., 2024
..................................................................................
LaVonne Griffin-Valade, Secretary of State
Enrolled Senate Bill 1561 (SB 1561-B) Page 8