1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2023 Regular Session
House Bill 2178
Sponsored by Representative MANNIX (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Requires state agencies to include, as part of agency request budget,  analysis of extent to which
goods and services can be acquired from work programs operated  by Department of Corrections or
Oregon Corrections Enterprises.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to corrections work programs; amending ORS 291.206.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 291.206 is amended to read:
291.206. (1) The Governor shall prescribe  rules the Governor considers necessary for the guid-
ance of agencies in the  preparation of agency request budgets. The Governor shall use the classi-
fications of expenditures provided in ORS 291.216 (6)(a) and  shall prepare and prescribe
classifications of revenue for the purpose of budget-making and accounting.
(2) Insofar as practicable, agency request  budgets and appropriation measures shall be prepared
in a  manner that reflects state governmental organization and state agency duties, functions and
powers under the law in effect on January 1 of the following year. The Oregon  Department of Ad-
ministrative Services shall  maintain agency request budgets in the form in which they are submitted.
(3) As supplemental information, each agency request budget shall include options for a  10 per-
cent reduction from the estimate of the  projected costs of continuing currently authorized activities
or programs for the next biennium,  excluding debt service. Each state agency shall describe the 10
percent reduction in terms of the  activities or programs that the agency will not undertake. The
activities  or  programs must be ranked in order of importance and priority on the basis of lowest cost
for benefit obtained.
(4) As supplemental information, each agency request budget shall  include a racial impact
statement, which must be developed in consultation with the Racial Justice  Council. The racial im-
pact statement must describe the impact of programs, policies and budget modifications  on
Oregonians who are Black, Indigenous or other people of color.
(5) As supplemental information, each agency  request budget shall include an analysis
of the extent to which goods and  services the agency plans to procure in the next biennium
can be acquired from work programs  operated by the Department of Corrections or Oregon
Corrections Enterprises. Agencies shall consult with the  Department of Corrections or
Oregon Corrections Enterprises when conducting the analysis.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1109