80th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2019 Regular Session
Enrolled
Senate Bill 1
Sponsored by Senator  COURTNEY (at the request of Governor Kate Brown, Chief Justice Martha
L. Walters) (Presession filed.)
CHAPTER .................................................
AN ACT
Relating to  youth with specialized needs; creating new provisions; and repealing ORS 418.975,
418.977, 418.980, 418.982 and 418.985.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SYSTEM OF CARE ADVISORY COUNCIL
SECTION 1. Definitions. As used in sections 1 to 4 of this 2019 Act,  unless the context
requires otherwise:
(1) “Cultural competence” means accepting and respecting  diversity and differences in a
continuous process of  self-assessment and reflection on one’s personal and organizational
perceptions of the dynamics of culture.
(2) “Cultural responsiveness” means the process by which people and  systems respond
respectfully and effectively to individuals  of all cultures, languages, classes, races, ethnic
backgrounds, disabilities, religions, genders, sexual orientations and other  diversity factors
in a manner that recognizes, affirms and values the worth of  individuals, families and com-
munities, and that protects and preserves the dignity of each.
(3) “Family” includes, with respect to a youth:
(a) A biological or legal parent;
(b) A sibling;
(c) An individual related by blood, marriage or adoption;
(d) A foster parent;
(e) A legal guardian;
(f) A caregiver;
(g) An individual with a significant social relationship with the youth;
(h) Any person who provides support to the youth that the youth identifies as  important;
and
(i) Any person identified by the youth as being family.
(4) “Services and supports” means public, private and community resources that assist
youth in the achievement of positive  outcomes, including but not limited to education, child
welfare, public health, primary care, pediatric care, juvenile justice, mental health treat-
ment, substance use treatment and services  for individuals with intellectual and develop-
mental disabilities.
Enrolled Senate Bill 1 (SB 1-B) Page 1
(5) “System of care” means a coordinated  network of services and supports to youth
that:
(a) Integrates care planning and management across multiple levels of care;
(b) Recognizes disability as a natural and healthy part of the human experience;
(c) Is culturally and linguistically competent;
(d) Is designed to build meaningful partnerships  with families and youth in the delivery
and management of services and the development of policy;
(e) Has a supportive policy and management infrastructure at the state  and local levels;
and
(f) Is community-based with relationships at the local level.
(6) “Youth” means an individual 25  years of age or younger who has, or is at increased
risk of developing, chronic behavioral, emotional, physical  or developmental conditions and
is under the supervision of or engaged with two or more systems of care.
SECTION 2.
System of Care Advisory Council; membership; meetings.  (1) A  commission
known as the System of Care Advisory Council is established.
(2) The council consists of 25 members appointed as follows:
(a) The Chief Justice of the  Supreme Court shall appoint one representative from the
Judicial Department.
(b) The Governor shall appoint:
(A) Two members who are representatives of the Department of Human  Services with
extensive knowledge of systems of care, one of  whom must have direct experience with in-
tellectual and developmental disabilities programs.
(B) One member  who is a representative of the Oregon Youth Authority with extensive
knowledge of systems of care.
(C) One member who is  a representative of the Oregon Health Authority with extensive
knowledge of systems of care.
(D) One member who is a representative of the Department of Education.
(E) Two members who are representatives of coordinated care organizations meeting the
criteria adopted by the Oregon Health Authority under ORS 414.625, at  least one of which
must provide services to rural communities.
(F) One psychiatrist, one psychologist and one pediatric  physician, each of whom must
have clinical experience with youth.
(G) One member who is a representative of an entity that offers commercial insurance.
(H) Three members who are  representatives of agencies that provide different services
and supports to youth and families of youth.
(I) One member who is a representative of organizations that advocate for youth.
(J) One  member who is a representative of organizations that advocate for families of
youth.
(K) Two members of the public, each of whom are family members of:
(i) Persons with intellectual or developmental disabilities or mental illness; or
(ii) Persons who are currently or were previously in the foster  care system or the youth
criminal justice system.
(L) Two members of the public who are no more than 25 years of age and who:
(i) Are persons with intellectual or developmental disabilities or mental illness; or
(ii) Are currently or were previously a ward, youth or youth offender, as  those terms are
defined in ORS 419A.004.
(M) One member who is a county juvenile department director.
(N) One member who is a county mental health program director.
(O) One member who is a member of a  federally recognized Indian tribe in this state or
a designee of the Indian tribe.
(P) One member who is a representative of Oregon’s federally  mandated disability pro-
tection and advocacy agency.
Enrolled Senate Bill 1 (SB 1-B) Page 2
(3) The term of office of each member of the council is four years, but a  member serves
at the pleasure of the appointing authority. Before the  expiration of the term of a member,
a successor shall be appointed whose term begins on January 2 next following. A member is
eligible for reappointment to one additional term.  If there is a vacancy for any cause, the
appointing authority shall make  an appointment to become immediately effective for the
unexpired term.
(4)(a) Members of the  council who are not state employees are not entitled to compen-
sation or reimbursement for expenses and serve as volunteers on the council.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this subsection, members of the council described
in subsection (2)(b)(K) and (L) of this section may be reimbursed for travel and other  rea-
sonable expenses associated with serving on the council.
(5) Members of the council who are state employees carrying out their state  employment
functions are entitled to compensation and reimbursement by their employing agencies for
actual and necessary travel and other expenses  incurred by them in the performance of their
official duties as members of the council.
(6) The Governor shall appoint one of the  members as chairperson, to serve at the
pleasure of the Governor. The members of the council  shall elect from among themselves a
vice chairperson who shall preside over meetings  and exercise the functions of the chair-
person during the absence or disability of the chairperson. The chairperson  and the vice
chairperson shall execute the duties determined by the council to be necessary.
(7) The council shall meet at least four times per year at a place, day  and hour deter-
mined by the council.
(8) A majority of the members of the council constitutes a quorum for  the transaction
of business.
(9) The Oregon Health Authority, in coordination with the Department of Human  Ser-
vices, shall provide staff support to the council.
SECTION 3.
Purpose and duties of council;  rules.  (1) The purpose of the System of Care
Advisory Council is to improve the effectiveness and efficacy of state and local  systems of
care that provide services to youth by  providing a centralized and impartial forum for
statewide policy development and planning.
(2) The  primary duty of the council is to develop and maintain a state system of care
policy and a comprehensive, long-range  plan for a coordinated state system of care that en-
compasses public health, health systems, child welfare,  education, juvenile justice and ser-
vices and supports  for mental and behavioral health and people with intellectual or
developmental disabilities. The plan must include,  but need not be limited to, recommenda-
tions regarding:
(a) Capacity, utilization and types of state and  local systems of care and services and
supports;
(b) Implementation of in-home  behavioral health services, crisis and transition services,
therapeutic foster care, in-home family support  services and the integration of those ser-
vices with existing programs of residential services for  individuals with behavioral health
needs and intellectual developmental disabilities;
(c) Appropriate use of existing systems of care and services and supports;
(d) Whether additional services and supports are necessary to address gaps in coverage;
(e) Methods for assessing the effectiveness of systems of care and services and  supports
in reducing juvenile dependency or delinquency;
(f) Methods of reducing risk of future juvenile dependency or delinquency;
(g) The effective utilization of the local system of care governance structure;
(h) Guidelines for partner agency core values and guiding principles; and
(i) Guidelines that ensure cultural competence in the provision of services  and supports
by:
Enrolled Senate Bill 1 (SB 1-B) Page 3
(A) Implementing uniform standards to allow local system of care teams to describe  the
culturally responsive services and supports available in a system of care.
(B) Providing youth and  families with understandable and effective system of care ser-
vices in a manner compatible with their disabilities,  cultural beliefs and practices, literacy
skills and language.
(C) Developing and implementing a process to review practices accepted by diverse com-
munities.
(D) Identifying ways  to continually improve culturally competent system of care services
and implementing a statewide system of care that reflects culturally competent practices.
(3) Other duties of the council are to:
(a) Conduct joint studies  by agreement with other state agencies, boards or commissions
on any matter within the jurisdiction of the council;
(b) Provide oversight of the implementation of the  services described in subsection (2)(b)
of this section by the Oregon Health Authority, the  Oregon Youth Authority and the De-
partment of Human Services and to provide periodic updates on the agencies’ implementation
to the Legislative Assembly;
(c) Provide recommendations to the Director of the Oregon Health Authority,  the Di-
rector of the Oregon Youth Authority and the Director of Human  Services as necessary for
the agencies to maintain and strengthen the systems of care;
(d) Make recommendations to the Director  of the Oregon Health Authority, the Director
of the Oregon Youth Authority and the Director of Human Services to reduce barriers  to
implementation of systems of care;
(e) Continually monitor and update the Children’s System Data Dashboard  described in
section 4 of this 2019 Act, with a specific focus  on the number of youth placed in hotels,
out-of-state placements, emergency department boarding, congregate care  facilities, shelter
care or Oregon Youth Authority custody; and
(f) Award grants  for the purpose of supporting local system of care governance and for
carrying out the recommendations  in the council’s plan developed under subsection (2) of
this section.
(4)(a) On or before  January 2 of each even-numbered year, the council shall update its
plan under subsection (2) of this section  and submit the plan to an interim committee of the
Legislative Assembly related to youth, and to the Governor.
(b) On or before September 15 of each year, the council shall  submit a report in the
manner provided in ORS 192.245, including recommendations for legislation,  to an interim
committee of the Legislative Assembly related to  youth, and to the Governor, describing how
the council is meeting its goals, the remaining barriers to access to  services and supports
and recommendations for legislation.
(5) The council may:
(a) Apply for and receive gifts and grants from any public or private source.
(b) Adopt rules to carry out the provisions of this section.
(6) All agencies  of state government, as defined in ORS 174.111, are directed to assist the
council in the  performance of the duties of the council and, to the extent permitted by laws
relating to confidentiality,  to furnish information and advice the members of the council
consider necessary to perform the duties of the council.
SECTION 4.
Children’s System Data Dashboard.  (1) The System of Care  Advisory Council
shall maintain the Children’s System  Data Dashboard, which must include, at a minimum,
the following local and statewide data:
(a) The number of children under  21 years of age, wards, youth and youth offenders being
served by the Oregon Youth Authority, the Oregon Health Authority  and the Department
of Human Services;
(b) The  number of children, wards, youth and youth offenders identified in this section
who are currently living in each of the following situations:
Enrolled Senate Bill 1 (SB 1-B) Page 4
(A) At home;
(B) In substitute care; or
(C) In specific placement;
(c) The number  of children, wards, youth and youth offenders identified in this section
who were previously identified as being in danger of removal but who have been able to re-
main in their homes;
(d) The  number of children, wards, youth and youth offenders identified in this section
who are living in hotels, out-of-state  placements, congregate care facilities, shelter care or
emergency department boarding;
(e) The length of time the children, wards, youth and youth offenders identified in  this
section have been waiting to access services or appropriate placements; and
(f) Outcomes of services that are provided to children,  wards, youth and youth offenders
by the Oregon Youth Authority, the Oregon Health Authority and the Department  of Human
Services.
(2) Notwithstanding section 1 of this  2019 Act, as used in this section, the terms
“wards,” “youth” and “youth offenders” have the meanings  given those terms in ORS
419A.004.
(3) The System of Care Advisory  Council may adopt rules to carry out the provisions of
this section.
SECTION 5.
System of Care Account.  The System of Care Account is  established in the
State Treasury, separate and distinct from  the General Fund. All moneys deposited in the
account are continuously appropriated to the Oregon  Health Authority for the purpose of
supporting the duties of the System of Care Advisory Council  established under section 2 of
this 2019 Act, as directed by the council.
SECTION 6. Reports to Legislative Assembly.  The System of Care Advisory Council shall
submit the following  reports in the manner provided in ORS 192.245, including recommenda-
tions for legislation, to an interim committee of the  Legislative Assembly related to youth,
and to the Governor:
(1) No later than May 1, 2020, a  description of all gains agencies have made in strength-
ening the service continuum, including the work done by agencies participating in systems
of care, and a description of the data  the council are tracking to demonstrate outcomes of
enhanced services and supports.
(2) No later than June 1, 2020, a description of the Children’s System Data  Dashboard
described in section 4 of this 2019 Act, with instructions for how to access the data.
(3) No  later than June 1, 2020, a status report regarding the council’s development of the
plan described in section 3 (2) of this 2019 Act.
(4) No later  than September 15, 2020, a description of the council’s recommendations to
resolve the barriers and challenges to implementation of systems of care.
(5) No later than February 1, 2021, recommendations regarding opportunities for  braided
and blended funding, including grants to local systems of care  to support innovation and the
shift to more community-based and in-home services and supports.
(6) No later than September 15, 2021, the details of the council’s plan described  in section
3 (2) of this 2019 Act.
SECTION 7.
ORS 418.975, 418.977, 418.980, 418.982 and 418.985 are repealed.
INTERDISCIPLINARY ASSESSMENT TEAMS
SECTION 8. Interdisciplinary assessment teams.  (1) The Department of Human Services,
the Oregon Health Authority and the  Oregon Youth Authority may contract with public or
private providers to establish interdisciplinary assessment teams to provide services  to
youth.
(2) An interdisciplinary assessment team shall:
Enrolled Senate Bill 1 (SB 1-B) Page 5
(a) Provide evaluation of youth.
(b) Increase statewide  education, consultation and telemedicine evaluation, assessment
and treatment capacity, with specific emphasis on increasing access to psychiatric  and de-
velopmental assessments in communities that lack sufficient access to providers.
(c) Prioritize evaluation, assessment and stabilization services provided to youth who are
placed in hotels, in out-of-state facilities, in emergency department boarding,  in shelter care,
in institutional care, in county detention facilities or  in the custody of the Oregon Youth
Authority.
(3) The Oregon Health Authority, in consultation with the Department  of Human Ser-
vices and the Oregon Youth Authority, shall  establish criteria for proposals for contracts
under this section, prepare and publish requests for proposals, receive proposals and  award
contracts to eligible providers.
(4) As used in this section “system  of care” and “youth” have the meanings given those
terms in section 1 of this 2019 Act.
MISCELLANEOUS
SECTION 9.
Notwithstanding the term of office  specified by section 2 of this 2019 Act,
of the members first appointed to the System of Care Advisory Council:
(1) Nine shall serve for a term ending January 1, 2021.
(2) Eight shall serve for a term ending January 1, 2022.
(3) Eight shall serve for a term ending January 1, 2023.
SECTION 10.
No later than  June 1, 2020, the System of Care Advisory Council shall de-
velop and deploy the Children’s System Data Dashboard  described in section 4 of this 2019
Act.
SECTION 11. (1) Section 10 of this 2019 Act is repealed on January 2, 2021.
(2) Section 6 of this 2019 Act is repealed on January 2, 2022.
SECTION 12.
 The unit and section captions used in this 2019 Act are provided only for
the convenience of the reader and do not become part of the statutory law  of this state or
express any legislative intent in the enactment of this 2019 Act.
Enrolled Senate Bill 1 (SB 1-B) Page 6
Passed by Senate June 29, 2019
..................................................................................
Lori L. Brocker, Secretary of Senate
..................................................................................
Peter Courtney, President of Senate
Passed by House June 29, 2019
..................................................................................
Tina Kotek, Speaker of House
Received by Governor:
........................M.,........................................................., 2019
Approved:
........................M.,........................................................., 2019
..................................................................................
Kate Brown, Governor
Filed in Office of Secretary of State:
........................M.,........................................................., 2019
..................................................................................
Bev Clarno, Secretary of State
Enrolled Senate Bill 1 (SB 1-B) Page 7