1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2875
Sponsored by Representative EVANS (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Authorizes school districts to have maker spaces. (Flesch Readability Score: 78.8).
Authorizes district school boards to take specified actions to facilitate the creation and use of
maker spaces.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to maker spaces.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
Section 2 of this 2025 Act is added to and made a part of ORS chapter 332.
SECTION 2. (1) A district school board may facilitate the creation  and use of maker
spaces by:
(a) Making available areas  in schools for use during nonschool hours by people with
shared interests, especially in computing or  technology, so that the people can gather to
work on projects while sharing ideas, equipment and knowledge;
(b) Charging no more than the necessary costs related to  providing safe and trained
oversight for the areas described in paragraph (a) of this subsection;
(c) Entering  into agreements to provide to the school district an interest in a patent, as
provided by ORS 332.745, in exchange for use  of the area described in paragraph (a) of this
subsection if the area had been provided at less than market value; and
(d) Coordinating with nonprofit organizations to  provide equipment, personnel and re-
sources for use in areas described in paragraph (a) of this subsection.
(2) The Department of Education, in consultation with  the Department of Justice, shall
compile and make available to school  districts guidelines for the best practices of making
available an area described in subsection (1)(a) of this section.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2050