1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 584
Sponsored by Senators PROZANSKI, MANNING  JR, FREDERICK, Representatives SMITH G, EVANS; Senators
MEEK, NASH, TAYLOR, Representative WALTERS (at the request of Oregon Truffle Festival)  (Presession
filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Declares a month in praise of Oregon truffles. (Flesch Readability Score: 71.8).
Designates February of each year as Oregon Truffle Month.
Declares an emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to Oregon Truffle Month; and declaring an emergency.
Whereas Oregon is  recognized as one of the top five truffle regions in the world, and Oregon
truffles are among the world’s preeminent culinary delicacies; and
Whereas truffles are a form of mycorrhizal fungus that develops underground in symbiotic as-
sociation with the roots of trees, and truffles are the “fruit” of these fungi; and
Whereas Oregon is home to four native truffle species that are recognized for  their culinary
value: the Oregon Winter White Truffle (Tuber oregonense) , the Oregon Spring White Truffle (Tuber
gibbosum), the Oregon Black Truffle (Leucangium cascadiense)  and the Oregon Brown  Truffle
(Kalapuya brunnea) ; and
Whereas Oregon truffles provide an  economic incentive to keep forests standing, delivering
ecosystem services including carbon sequestration,  wildlife migration corridors and many other
benefits to the natural and aesthetic environment, while ensuring sustainable  annual income for
landowners; and
Whereas February marks the  peak of Oregon truffle season, drawing thousands of people from
around the country and the world, who visit Oregon’s rural areas where truffles  are found, benefit-
ing local communities; now, therefore,
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
February of each year is designated as Oregon Truffle Month.
SECTION 2. This 2025 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist,  and this 2025 Act takes effect
on its passage.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1731