1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Joint Resolution 5
Sponsored by Representative SMITH G (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The measure asks voters to  fix the maximum age to seek statewide elected office or to
seek to be a member of the state Senate or the state House. The measure  asks voters to say yes or
no at the next general election. (Flesch Readability Score: 66.9).
Proposes an amendment to the Oregon Constitution to establish a maximum age beyond which
candidates for election or reelection to executive branch statewide elected office or the office of
State Senator or State Representative may not seek elective office.
Refers the proposed amendment to the people for their approval or rejection at the next regular
general election.
JOINT RESOLUTION
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
PARAGRAPH 1.
 The Constitution of the State of Oregon is amended by creating a new  section
25 to be added to and made a part of Article II, such section to read:
SECTION 25. A candidate may  not seek election or reelection if the candidate is 72 years
of age or older on the date of the election and the office being sought is:
(1) Governor, Secretary of State, State  Treasurer or any other statewide elected office
in the Executive Branch;
(2) State Senator; or
(3) State Representative.
PARAGRAPH 2.
The amendment proposed by this resolution shall be submitted to the
people for their approval or rejection at the next  regular general election held throughout
this state.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1754