1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 1143
Sponsored by Senators LIEBER, SOLLMAN, Representatives LEVY B, ANDERSEN, MARSH; Senator PHAM K,
Representatives HELM, LIVELY
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Makes the PUC create a program to have each gas company create a thermal energy
network pilot project. Makes each gas company apply to  create a pilot project. (Flesch Readability
Score:  65.7).
Directs the Public Utility Commission to establish a pilot  program that allows each natural gas
company to develop a utility-scale thermal energy network pilot project to provide heating  and
cooling services to customers. Requires each natural gas company to file a proposal and  plan to
develop a pilot project or an  explanation for why the natural gas company is not submitting a pro-
posal. Identifies criteria the commission shall take into consideration in evaluating a proposal.
Takes effect on the 91st day following adjournment sine die.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to thermal energy networks; and prescribing an effective date.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) As used in this section:
(a) “Natural gas  company” means a public utility, as defined in ORS 757.005, that provides
natural gas services to customers.
(b) “Thermal energy network” means a  network of pipes and heat pumps that uses
noncombustible fluids within the network to distribute thermal energy between and  among
ground, air and surface water sources and buildings connected to the network.
(c) “Thermal energy network pilot project” includes all  real estate, fixtures and personal
property used for or in connection with developing or operating a thermal energy network.
(2) The Public Utility Commission  shall establish a pilot program that allows each natural
gas company to develop  a utility-scale thermal energy network pilot project to provide
heating and cooling services to customers. The purpose of the pilot program is to:
(a) Demonstrate the use and effectiveness of thermal  energy networks to provide heating
and cooling services while reducing or  eliminating greenhouse gas emissions or improving
energy efficiency;
(b) Allow each natural gas company to gain experience with  using thermal energy net-
works to provide heating and cooling services to customers; and
(c) Provide the commission with experience on how to integrate thermal energy networks
and thermal energy network projects into the commission’s regulatory processes.
(3) The commission shall  direct each natural gas company to file within 24 months from
the effective date of this 2025 Act, and in a form and manner prescribed by  the commission:
(a)(A) A  proposal to develop and operate a utility-scale thermal energy network pilot
project that serves customers; and
(B) A plan, for  acceptance by the commission, for measuring the effectiveness of the
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1536
SB 1143
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
thermal energy network pilot project. The plan must include specific metrics that the na-
tural gas company proposes to use to evaluate the pilot project; or
(b) An explanation for why the natural gas company is not submitting a proposal  for a
thermal energy network pilot project.
(4) The commission shall evaluate a proposal to develop a thermal energy network  pilot
project with consideration to the following criteria:
(a) Whether the proposed project serves low income and energy burdened communities;
(b) Whether the proposed project serves a mix of building types;
(c) Whether the proposed project  utilizes the existing gas utility workforce, creates jobs
or uses labor agreements;
(d) The availability of local waste heat, ground heat sources and water bodies;
(e) The safety, reliability and resiliency  objectives of the proposed project and whether
those objectives may be reasonably achieved;
(f) Whether the proposed project tests technical, operational and  financial approaches to
achieving equitable and affordable decarbonization of buildings;
(g) Whether the proposed project leverages  local and federal funding sources to offset
costs recovery from customers for costs and expenses related to developing the proposed
project;
(h) Whether  the proposed project benefits the community by improving air quality, en-
ergy affordability and water conservation, avoiding or reducing electricity use  or reducing
greenhouse gas emissions;
(i) Collaboration by the natural gas company with the local community,  governments and
electric utility providers and regulators;
(j) Whether the proposed project will inform how thermal energy networks can  help
support joint planning by natural gas and electric utility providers;
(k) Whether the proposed  project will inform how thermal energy networks can reduce
overall and peak energy use;
(L) Whether the proposed project will inform  how thermal energy networks can avoid
costs that might be incurred absent the thermal energy  network, including infrastructure,
fuel, operations and maintenance costs; and
(m) Whether the proposed project provides learning  to help the development of regu-
lations that allow and facilitate thermal energy networks.
(5) The commission shall allow a natural gas company to recover costs from all  custom-
ers of the natural gas company for prudent costs or expenses related to developing and op-
erating a thermal energy network pilot project under this section.
SECTION 2.
Section 1 of this 2025 Act is repealed on January 2, 2036.
SECTION 3. This 2025 Act takes effect on the 91st day after the date on which the 2025
regular session of the Eighty-third Legislative Assembly adjourns sine die.
[2]