1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Joint Resolution 4
Sponsored by Representative DIEHL (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Requires a two-thirds majority of  the members of the House and the Senate to pass bills
that take effect early. (Flesch Readability Score: 63.8).
Proposes an amendment to the Oregon Constitution to require a  two-thirds majority vote in fa-
vor in each chamber of the Legislative Assembly to pass bills declaring an emergency.
Refers the proposed amendment to the people for their approval or rejection at the next regular
general election.
JOINT RESOLUTION
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
PARAGRAPH 1.
 Section 25, Article IV  of the Constitution of the State of Oregon, is amended
to read:
Sec. 25.  (1)  Except as otherwise provided in [ subsection (2) ] subsections (2) and (3)  of this
section, a majority of all  the members elected to each House shall be necessary to pass every bill
or Joint resolution.
(2) Three-fifths of all members elected to each House  shall be necessary to pass bills for raising
revenue.
(3) Two-thirds of all members elected to each House shall be necessary to pass  bills de-
claring an emergency.
[(3)] (4)  All bills, and Joint resolutions passed, shall be signed by  the presiding officers of the
respective  houses.
PARAGRAPH 2. The amendment proposed by this resolution shall be submitted to the
people for their approval or rejection at the next  regular general election held throughout
this state.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 681