1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2024 Regular Session
House Bill 4108
Sponsored by Representative LEVY  B, Senator SMITH DB, Representative OWENS; Representatives BOICE,
BREESE-IVERSON, CRAMER, DIEHL, ELMER, GOODWIN, HELFRICH, HIEB, JAVADI, LEWIS, MANNIX,
MCINTIRE, OSBORNE, RESCHKE, SCHARF, STOUT, WRIGHT, YUNKER, Senators ANDERSON, BONHAM,
GIROD, HANSELL, KNOPP, LINTHICUM, THATCHER, WEBER (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Requires a health care  worker who is present when a child is born alive after an
abortion to give the same level of  care as if the child was born alive after a normal birth. Makes
it a crime if a health care worker knowingly or recklessly does not do  so. Allows the person who
had an abortion to sue a health care worker for knowingly or recklessly not giving the required care
to a child born alive after an abortion. Allows the court  to protect the private information of the
person who had an abortion. (Flesch Readability Score: 62.6).
Requires a health care practitioner  to exercise the proper degree of care to preserve the health
and life of a child born  alive after an abortion or an attempted abortion. Requires a health care
practitioner to ensure  that a child born alive is transported to a hospital. Creates crime for failure
to exercise proper standard of care, punishable by maximum of five years’  imprisonment, $125,000
fine, or both.
Allows specified person to bring civil action for  damages and equitable relief against a health
care practitioner for failing to exercise proper standard of care.  Directs the court to award attorney
fees to a prevailing plaintiff.
Allows the court to order that the identity or personally identifiable information of  specified
persons is protected from disclosure.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to abortion.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
Sections 1 to 7 of this 2024 Act shall be known and may be cited as the
Born-Alive Infants Protection Act.
SECTION 2. As used in sections 1 to 7 of this 2024 Act:
(1) “Abortion” means the use or  prescription of a drug, medicine, instrument or other
substance or device in order to:
(a) Intentionally kill the unborn child of a pregnant person; or
(b) Terminate a person’s pregnancy with a purpose other than:
(A) After viability, to produce a live birth and  preserve the life and health of the child;
or
(B) To remove a dead unborn child.
(2) “Born alive” means the complete  expulsion or extraction of a child from a person at
any stage of the child’s development and after  the expulsion or extraction, the child is
breathing or has a beating heart, pulsation of the  umbilical cord or definite movement of
voluntary muscles, whether the  umbilical cord has been severed or not. Expulsion or ex-
traction may occur by natural or induced labor, cesarean section or induced abortion.
(3) “Health care practitioner” means a person who is  authorized by a health professional
regulatory agency in this state to engage in the practice of a health care discipline.
SECTION 3.
In determining the meaning of any statute, rule, regulation or interpretation
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 68
HB 4108
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
thereof by an agency of this state, “person,” “human being,” “child” and “individual,” in ad-
dition to any other definition, means an infant member of the  species homo sapiens who is
born alive at any stage of the member’s development.
SECTION 4.
(1) When an abortion or attempted  abortion results in a child born alive, any
health care practitioner who is present at the time the child is born alive shall:
(a) Exercise the same  degree of professional skill, care and diligence to preserve the life
and health of the child that a reasonably  diligent and conscientious health care practitioner
would render to any other child born alive at the same gestational age; and
(b) Following the exercise of skill, care and diligence required under paragraph (a)  of this
subsection, if the child was not born alive in a hospital, ensure  that the child born alive is
immediately transported and admitted to  a hospital. If the child was born alive at a hospital,
the health care practitioner shall continue to exercise the skill, care and  diligence required
under paragraph (a) of this subsection.
(2) A health care practitioner or an employee of a  health care clinic where an abortion
or attempted abortion results in a child born alive and who has knowledge of  a violation of
subsection (1) of this section shall immediately report the violation to a state law  enforce-
ment agency.
SECTION 5. Nothing in sections 1 to 7 of this 2024  Act shall be construed to affirm, deny,
expand or limit any legal status  or legal right of a member of the species homo sapiens at
any point prior to being born alive.
SECTION 6. A person who knowingly or recklessly violates section 4 of this 2024 Act shall
be guilty of a Class C felony, except that the person  upon whom the abortion was performed
or attempted to be performed may not be prosecuted for a violation of section 4 of this 2024
Act.
SECTION 7.
(1) A person upon whom an abortion was performed or attempted to  be
performed may maintain a civil action  against a person who knowingly or recklessly violates
section 4 of this 2024 Act for damages and equitable relief.
(2)(a) A court shall award attorney fees to a plaintiff who  prevails in an action described
in subsection (1) of this section.
(b) A  court shall award attorney fees to a defendant against whom an action described
in subsection (1) of this section is  brought if the action is not successful and the court de-
termines that the action is frivolous or was brought in bad faith.
(3) A civil action for violation of section 4 of this 2024 Act may not  be maintained against
a person upon whom an abortion was performed or attempted to be performed.
SECTION 8. (1) In an action brought under sections 1 to 7 of this 2024 Act, the court
shall rule, either by the court’s own motion or that of a party, whether the  identity or any
personally identifiable information of the person upon whom an abortion was performed or
attempted to be performed in violation of  section 4 of this 2024 Act should be exempt from
disclosure, unless the person consents  in a signed writing to the disclosure of the person’s
identity or personally identifiable information.
(2) If  the court determines, under subsection (1) of this section, that the person’s identity
or any personally identifiable information should be exempt from  disclosure, the court shall
issue orders to the parties, witnesses  and counsel regarding the exemption from disclosure
and shall direct that the court record be sealed and that the  proceedings be closed to the
public to the extent necessary to protect from disclosure the person’s identity  or personally
[2]
HB 4108
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
identifiable information.
(3) An order issued under this section must include written findings explaining:
(a) Why the person’s identity or personally identifiable information  should be exempted
from disclosure;
(b) Why the order is necessary to protect the person’s identity or  personally identifiable
information from disclosure;
(c) How the order is narrowly tailored to achieve protection from disclosure; and
(d) Why no reasonable less restrictive alternative means exist  to ensure protection from
disclosure.
(4) This section  may not be construed to prevent the disclosure to the defendant of the
identity of the plaintiff or of witnesses.
[3]