1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2724
Sponsored by Representative EVANS (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Tells companies that each year they must send to the state tax  agency a notice stating
the company registered, or tried to register,  for the draft. The company must file the notice when
the company files a tax return. Lets the  company file the notice within three years after filing the
tax return. Tells the state tax agency not to allow subtractions or  credits if the company does not
file the notice. (Flesch Readability Score: 64.3).
Requires every corporation to annually file an affidavit with the Department of Revenue at-
testing that the corporation has registered or attempted to register with the United States  Selective
Service System. Directs  the department to disallow all state corporate excise or income tax sub-
tractions and credits claimed by the corporation if the corporation fails to  file an affidavit with the
corporation’s  tax  return. Allows the corporation to comply with the law by filing an affidavit within
three years after filing a return.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to corporate registration for federal selective service.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) Every corporation that is incorporated in this state as  described in ORS
60.051 or  that is a foreign corporation that is authorized to transact business in this state
under ORS 60.701 each year must file an affidavit in which the corporation attests that the
corporation registered  or attempted to register with the United States Selective Service
System.
(2) The corporation  shall file the affidavit with the Department of Revenue at the time
the corporation files a corporate excise or income tax return under ORS chapter 317 or 318.
(3) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, if a  corporation fails to file an affidavit
as described in subsection (2) of this section, the department  shall disallow all Oregon sub-
tractions and credits the corporation claimed on the corporation’s return.
(4) The department shall allow a corporation to file an affidavit  that brings the corpo-
ration into compliance with this section for three years after  the date on which the corpo-
ration filed the corporation’s return.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2662