1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2842
Sponsored by Representatives  EVANS, MANNIX; Representatives ANDERSEN, LEWIS, WALLAN, Senator
PATTERSON (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act gives money  to DAS to give out to expand a program for giving free childcare
to people to do government business. (Flesch Readability Score: 62.1).
Appropriates moneys to the Oregon Department of Administrative  Services for distribution to
an organization for expanding a program for providing free  drop-in childcare for people with busi-
ness at a county courthouse or with other governmental business and data collection regarding  the
program.
Declares an emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to childcare programs for people with governmental  business; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there is appropri-
ated to the Oregon Department of  Administrative Services, for the biennium beginning July
1, 2025, out of the General Fund, the amount of $210,000 for distribution to Marion County
Lawyers Charitable Corporation for purposes of expanding a program for providing  free
drop-in childcare for people with business at a county  courthouse or with other govern-
mental business and data collection regarding the program.
SECTION 2.
This 2025 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist,  and this 2025 Act takes effect
on its passage.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1552