1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 3954
Sponsored by Representative EVANS
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Tells the AG to not allow a person or unit of the guard to be called into active  service
except for certain reasons. (Flesch Readability Score: 65.7).
Prohibits the Adjutant General for assisting or allowing the United  States Department of De-
fense or any branch thereof to communicate with  any individual or unit of the Oregon National
Guard for purposes of calling the  individual or unit into active service unless the active service is
for a certain listed reason.
Prohibits the Adjutant General  from allowing an individual or unit of the Oregon National
Guard to be called into active service if the call into active service results in the  Oregon National
Guard being incapable of responding to a statewide emergency.
Directs that an Adjutant General be immediately dismissed for violations of the Act.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to the Oregon National Guard.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) Notwithstanding ORS  396.135, the Adjutant General may not assist, fa-
cilitate, communicate or allow communications between  the United States Department of
Defense or any branch thereof and individual  service members or units of the Oregon Na-
tional Guard on any matter associated with the individual or  unit being called into active
service under Title  10 or 32 of the United States Code unless the active service is for one of
following reasons:
(a) In support of a congressionally authorized military contingency.
(b) In support of operations in  response to a national catastrophe or disaster as declared
in a formal declaration  of war, congressional authorization for the use of military force or
presidential declaration.
(c) In support of a  congressionally authorized mission with the United States Department
of Homeland Security that  is consistent with federal law on the appropriate use of the Armed
Forces of the United States within or without the continental United States.
(d) For training for duties that are part of the primary duties of the individual or unit.
(e) For military support of the civil authorities of another  state or territory with the
express permission of the state’s or territory’s governor or executive civil authority.
(f) For military support of civil authorities for other duties  supported by congressional
action, federal law  or tradition, except not law enforcement or immigration enforcement
duties other than indirect support  or surveillance duties that are part of a border security
operation.
(2) Notwithstanding the reasons listed under subsection (1)(a) to (f) of this  section, the
Adjutant General  may not allow an individual or unit of the Oregon National Guard to be
called into active service under Title 10 or  32 of the United States Code if allowing the call
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 4739
HB 3954
1
2
3
4
5
6
into active service results in the Oregon National Guard  being effectively incapable of re-
sponding to a statewide emergency, such as a natural disaster or terrorism event.
(3) Notwithstanding ORS 396.150  (1), an Adjutant General who violates subsection (1) or
(2) of this section shall be immediately suspended from all duties and subject to  dismissal for
cause.
[2]