1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2433
Sponsored by Representative YUNKER; Representative WRIGHT, Senators NASH, SMITH DB (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act says that the government  may not treat people in different ways in jobs, schools
or public contracts on the grounds of race, sex, color, ethnicity or national origin. The Act makes
some exceptions. (Flesch Readability Score: 63.3).
Provides  that  a public body may not discriminate against, or grant preferential treatment to, any
individual or group on the basis of race, sex, color,  ethnicity or national origin in the operation of
public employment, public education or public contracting. Provides certain exceptions.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to different treatment of persons by a public body.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) A public body, as defined in ORS 174.109, may  not discriminate against
or grant  preferential treatment to any individual or group on the basis of race, sex, color,
ethnicity or national origin  in the operation of public employment, public education or public
contracting.
(2) Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as prohibiting bona  fide qualifications or
other considerations based on sex that are reasonably  necessary to the normal operation of
public employment, public education or public contracting.
(3) Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as invalidating any court order or  consent
decree that is in force as of the effective date of this section.
(4) Nothing in  this section shall be interpreted as prohibiting action that must be taken
to establish or  maintain eligibility for any federal program, where ineligibility would result
in a loss of federal funds to this state.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 612