1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
80th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2019 Regular Session
Senate Joint Resolution 13
Sponsored by Senator PROZANSKI (at the request of Tom Bowerman) (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Proposes amendment to Oregon Constitution to permit Legislative Assembly,  or people through
initiative process, to enact laws regulating use of moneys in political campaigns.
Provides that amendment to Constitution applies only to laws enacted  on or after December 3,
2020.
Refers proposed amendment to people for their approval or rejection at next  regular general
election.
JOINT RESOLUTION
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
PARAGRAPH 1.  Section 8,  Article I of the Constitution of the State of Oregon, is amended to
read:
Sec. 8. (1) No law shall be passed restraining the free expression  of opinion, or restricting the
right to speak, write, or print freely on any subject  whatever; but every person shall be responsible
for the abuse of this right.[ -]
(2) Notwithstanding subsection (1) of this section, the Legislative Assembly, or the people
through the initiative process, may enact laws regulating the use of  moneys in political
campaigns, including:
(a) Limiting contributions made in connection with political campaigns;
(b) Requiring the disclosure of  contributions or expenditures, as defined in state law,
made in connection with political campaigns;
(c) Requiring that an advertisement made in connection with a political campaign identify
the person or entity who paid for the advertisement; and
(d) Any other regulation on the  use of moneys in political campaigns permitted under
federal law.
(3) Subsection (2) of this section applies to laws  enacted by the Legislative Assembly, or
enacted or approved by the people through the initiative process, on or  after December 3,
2020.
PARAGRAPH 2.
The amendment proposed by this resolution shall be submitted to the
people for their approval or rejection at the next  regular general election held throughout
this state.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1976