1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 3023
Introduced and printed pursuant to  House Rule 12.00. Presession filed (at the request of Governor Tina Kotek for
Oregon Racing Commission)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Certain horse racing companies  pay a fee to the ORC. Currently, a portion of the fee
goes to the General Fund. The Act removes the requirement to transfer money to  the General Fund.
(Flesch Readability Score: 67.4).
Removes requirement that  the Oregon Racing Commission transfer certain fees related to
Multi-Jurisdictional Simulcasting and Interactive Wagering Totalizator Hubs to the General Fund.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to racing; amending ORS 462.725.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 462.725 is amended to read:
462.725. (1) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the Oregon Racing Commission
may adopt rules to:
(a) License and  regulate all phases of operation of Multi-Jurisdictional Simulcasting and Inter-
active Wagering Totalizator Hubs located in Oregon; and
(b) Authorize and license Multi-Jurisdictional  Simulcasting and Interactive Wagering Totalizator
Hubs to  conduct simulcast broadcasting of, and mutuel wagering on, animal races, including previ-
ously held races on which mutuel wagering is lawful in Oregon.
(2) In addition to the  other rules of operation adopted by the commission, the commission shall
adopt a rule setting the amount that may be taken from the gross receipts  of the multi-jurisdictional
mutuel system.
(3) All employees working in Oregon and all officers of any Multi-Jurisdictional Simulcasting
and Interactive Wagering Totalizator Hubs located and  operating in Oregon must obtain a license
from the commission prior to the commencement of business or employment.  The commission shall
adopt rules establishing license fees for the employees and officers, not to exceed $30 per year.
(4) Payments to be made to the commission include:
(a) Multi-Jurisdictional Simulcasting and Interactive Wagering Totalizator Hub license fee  not
more than $200 per operating day.
(b) Not more than one percent  of total gross receipts of mutuel wagering recorded by the
totalizator system.
(5) [ Of] The moneys received by the commission under subsection (4)(b)  of this section[ , 25 per-
cent shall be paid to the State Treasurer for deposit in the General Fund and 75 percent ] shall be re-
tained by the  commission. The commission may adopt rules under which the moneys [ retained by the
commission] may be distributed for the benefit of the Oregon pari-mutuel racing industry.
(6) Wagers on previously held races authorized under subsection (1) of this section are  subject
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 487
HB 3023
1
2
3
4
5
to the provisions of ORS 462.157.
(7) A Multi-Jurisdictional Simulcasting and Interactive Wagering Totalizator Hub licensee may
establish an account for wagering on greyhound racing for an  individual unless wagering on live
greyhound racing is unlawful in the jurisdiction of the individual’s principal residence.
[2]