1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 3141
Sponsored by Representative BREESE-IVERSON; Senator NASH (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act makes October 12  of each year Oregon Farmer and Rancher Day. (Flesch
Readability Score: 63.4).
Designates October 12 of each year as Oregon Farmer and Rancher Day.
Takes effect on the 91st day following adjournment sine die.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to Oregon Farmer and Rancher Day; and prescribing an effective date.
Whereas from the fertile Willamette Valley to the rolling hills of Eastern Oregon,  farmers and
ranchers are the heart and soul of agriculture in Oregon; and
Whereas rain or shine, drought  or frost, Oregon’s hardworking farmers and ranchers rise to the
challenge, shepherding the land, the livestock  and the natural resources in their charge to provide
the food, fiber and fuel that Oregonians, and indeed all Americans, rely on every single day; and
Whereas Oregon farmers and ranchers remain optimistic,  innovative and adaptable in an un-
predictable, ever-changing world, using climate-smart agricultural practices  to increase
sustainability, protect and conserve natural resources and  ensure that the soil they toil in will be
healthy, fertile and ripe with possibility for the future; and
Whereas Oregon farmers and ranchers’  unparalleled pride for their product has elevated the
status of this state’s great agricultural  products across the country and around the globe, and that
commitment to quality leads consumers throughout the United States and beyond to seek out
Oregon-grown blackberries, blueberries, hazelnuts, peppermint, cranberries, rhubarb, grass seed  and
countless other crops; and
Whereas Oregon’s agricultural industry is truly homegrown, with 96  percent of the more than
35,000 farms and ranches in Oregon being  family-owned and operated, 1,247 of which have remained
in the same family for over a century and 47 of which have been in operation for  150 years or more;
and
Whereas Oregon’s farmers and ranchers  are business owners, marketers, agronomists, climate
scientists, mechanics, breeding specialists, pest experts, purchasing officers,  market forecasters,
water administrators, accountants, human resources leads,  risk analysts, partners, parents and
leaders in their communities; and
Whereas Oregon’s farmers and  ranchers are an indispensable part of the fabric that binds to-
gether the people of the State of Oregon; now, therefore,
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
October 12 of each year is designated as Oregon Farmer and Rancher Day.
SECTION 2. This 2025 Act takes effect on the 91st day after the date on which the 2025
regular session of the Eighty-third Legislative Assembly adjourns sine die.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 3489
HB 3141
1
[2]