1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
80th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2019 Regular Session
House Bill 2354
Sponsored by Representative SMITH DB (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Directs Oregon Business Development Department to issue loans or grants  to City of Gold
Beach to construct training facility for public safety personnel.
Establishes Public Safety  Training Facility Construction Fund. Continuously appropriates mon-
eys in fund to department for facility.
Appropriates moneys from General Fund to  department for deposit in Public Safety Training
Facility Construction Fund.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to public safety personnel training.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
The Oregon Business Development Department shall, from the  Public Safety
Training Facility Construction Fund established under section 2 of  this 2019 Act, distribute
moneys through loans, grants or a combination thereof to the City of Gold Beach for  the
purposes of designing, developing, constructing, furnishing  or operating a facility for training
public safety personnel.
SECTION 2. (1) The Public Safety Training Facility Construction Fund is established  in
the State Treasury, separate and distinct from the General Fund. Interest  earned on moneys
in the Public Safety Training Facility Construction Fund must be  credited to the fund. The
fund may include fees, revenues or other  income deposited into the fund by the Legislative
Assembly or by any other source, public or private.
(2) Moneys in the fund  are continuously appropriated to the Oregon Business Develop-
ment Department for the purposes described in section 1 of this 2019 Act.
SECTION 3. In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there  is appropri-
ated to the Oregon  Business Development Department, for the biennium beginning July 1,
2019, out of the  General Fund, the amount of $1,100,000, to be deposited in the Public Safety
Training Facility Construction Fund established under section 2 of this 2019 Act.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1057