82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2023 Regular Session
Enrolled
House Bill 2049
Introduced and printed pursuant to House Rule 12.00.  Presession filed (at the request of Joint Leg-
islative Committee on Information Management and Technology)
CHAPTER .................................................
AN ACT
Relating to cybersecurity; creating new provisions; repealing ORS 276A.326 and 276A.329; and  de-
claring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
OREGON CYBERSECURITY
(Definitions)
SECTION 1. Definitions. As used in this section  and sections 3, 7 and 10 of this 2023 Act:
(1) “Education service  district” means a district created under ORS 334.010 that provides
regional educational services to component school districts.
(2) “Library” means a public  agency that provides free and equal access to library and
information services that are suitable for persons of all ages.
(3) “Local government” means a city or county.
(4) “Public body” has the meaning given that term in ORS 174.109.
(5) “Regional government” means:
(a) A metropolitan service district formed under ORS chapter 268.
(b) An intergovernmental entity created by  an intergovernmental agreement under ORS
190.010.
(6) “School district” has the meaning given that term in ORS 330.003.
(7) “Special district” means a district as defined in ORS 198.010.
(Oregon Cybersecurity Advisory Council)
SECTION 2.
ORS 276A.326 is repealed and section 3 of this 2023 Act is enacted in lieu
thereof.
SECTION 3. Oregon Cybersecurity Advisory Council.  (1) The Oregon Cybersecurity Ad-
visory Council is  established within the Oregon Cybersecurity Center of Excellence. The
council consists of 21 members appointed as follows:
(a) The Governor, after consultation with the  State Chief Information Officer and the
director of the  Oregon Cybersecurity Center of Excellence or the director’s designee, shall
appoint 15 voting members.
(b) The Speaker of the House of Representatives shall appoint one nonvoting member
who is a member of the House of Representatives.
Enrolled House Bill 2049 (HB 2049-B) Page 1
(c) The President of the Senate shall appoint one  nonvoting member who is a member
of the Senate.
(d) The Secretary of  State shall appoint one ex officio, nonvoting member to represent
the Secretary of State.
(e) The State Treasurer shall appoint one ex officio, nonvoting  member to represent the
State Treasurer.
(f) The Attorney General shall appoint one ex officio, nonvoting member to  represent the
Attorney General.
(g) The Director of  the Oregon Department of Emergency Management shall appoint one
ex officio, nonvoting member to represent the Oregon Department of Emergency Manage-
ment.
(2)(a) The voting members of the council shall consist of:
(A) One member who represents Indian tribes, as defined in ORS 97.740;
(B) One member who represents the Association of Oregon Counties;
(C) One member who represents the League of Oregon Cities;
(D) One member who represents the Special Districts Association of Oregon;
(E) One member who represents regional governments;
(F) One member who represents the Oregon Association of Education Service Districts;
(G) One member who represents the Oregon School Boards Association;
(H) One member who represents the Coalition of Oregon School Administrators;
(I) One member who represents public universities listed in ORS 352.002;
(J) One member who represents community colleges;
(K) One member who represents the office of Enterprise Information Services;
(L) One member who represents a critical infrastructure sector in  Oregon as defined by
the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency of the United  States Department of
Homeland Security;
(M) One member who represents cyber-related industries in Oregon;
(N) One member who represents a public sector  information technology association in
Oregon; and
(O) One member who represents a  private sector information technology or telecommu-
nications association in Oregon.
(b) A majority of the council’s voting members must  be geographically diverse repre-
sentatives of public universities  listed in ORS 352.002, local governments, regional govern-
ments, special districts, education service districts, school districts or libraries.
(3) The council shall elect one voting member of the council to serve as  chairperson and
one voting member of the council to serve as vice chairperson.
(4)(a) A majority of  the voting members of the council constitutes a quorum for the
transaction of business.
(b) Official action by the council requires the  approval of a majority of the voting mem-
bers of the council.
(5)(a) The term of office of each voting member of the council is four  years, but a
member serves at the pleasure of the Governor.
(b) Before the expiration of the term of a  voting member, the Governor, after consulta-
tion with the  State Chief Information Officer and the director of Oregon Cybersecurity
Center of Excellence or the director’s designee, shall  appoint a successor whose term begins
on July 1 following the appointment. A voting member is eligible for reappointment.
(c) If there is a  vacancy for any cause, the Governor, after consultation with the State
Chief Information Officer  and the director of Oregon Cybersecurity Center of Excellence or
the director’s designee, shall make an appointment to become immediately effective for  the
unexpired term.
(6) The nonvoting legislative members of the council shall serve  two-year terms and are
eligible for reappointment.
Enrolled House Bill 2049 (HB 2049-B) Page 2
(7) The council shall meet at times and places specified by the call of the chairperson  or
a majority of the voting members of the council.
(8) Members of the council  who are not members of the Legislative Assembly are not
entitled to compensation, but the  Oregon Cybersecurity Center of Excellence may reimburse
a member of the  council who is not a member of the Legislative Assembly for actual and
necessary travel and other expenses incurred in performing the member’s  official duties, in
the manner and amounts  provided for in ORS 292.495, from funds appropriated to the Higher
Education Coordinating Commission for purposes of the council.
(9) Members of the council who are members of the Legislative Assembly are  entitled to
compensation and expense reimbursement as provided in ORS 171.072.
(10) The council may:
(a) Adopt rules, policies and procedures necessary for the operation of the council.
(b) Establish subcommittees,  advisory committees or other work groups necessary to
assist the council in performing its duties.
(c) Appoint additional nonvoting members to the council.
(11) All agencies of state government, as defined  in ORS 174.111, are directed to assist
the council in the performance of the council’s duties and, to the  extent permitted by laws
relating to confidentiality, shall furnish information and advice  the council considers neces-
sary to perform the council’s duties.
SECTION 4.
Initial terms.  Notwithstanding the term of office specified in section 3 of this
2023 Act,  of the voting members appointed to the Oregon Cybersecurity Advisory Council
under section 3 of this 2023 Act:
(1) One-third shall serve for a term ending July 1, 2025.
(2) One-third shall serve for a term ending July 1, 2026.
(3) The remaining voting members shall serve for a term ending July 1, 2027.
SECTION 5.
Transfer. (1) The  duties, functions and powers of the office of Enterprise
Information Services relating to the Oregon  Cybersecurity Advisory Council are imposed
upon, transferred to and vested in the Oregon Cybersecurity Center of Excellence,  estab-
lished under section 7 of this 2023 Act.
(2)(a) The  State Chief Information Officer shall deliver to a representative of Portland
State University, on behalf of the Oregon Cybersecurity  Center of Excellence, all records and
property within the jurisdiction of the  officer that relate to the duties, functions and powers
transferred by this section.
(b) A representative of Portland State University, on behalf of the  Oregon Cybersecurity
Center of  Excellence, shall take possession of the records and property described in para-
graph (a) of this subsection.
(c) The Governor shall resolve any  dispute between the office of Enterprise Information
Services and the Oregon Cybersecurity Center of Excellence relating to transfers of records
and property under this subsection, and the Governor’s decision is final.
(3)(a) The unexpended balances of amounts authorized  to be expended by the office of
Enterprise Information Services for the biennium  beginning July 1, 2023, from revenues
dedicated, continuously appropriated, appropriated or otherwise made available  for the pur-
pose of administering and enforcing the duties, functions and powers transferred  by this
section are transferred to and are available  for expenditure by Portland State University, on
behalf of the Oregon Cybersecurity Center of Excellence for the biennium beginning July 1,
2023, for the purpose of administering and enforcing the duties, functions and powers trans-
ferred by this section.
(b) The expenditure classifications, if any, established by Acts  authorizing or limiting
expenditures by the office of Enterprise Information  Services remain applicable to expendi-
tures by  Portland State University on behalf of the Oregon Cybersecurity Center of Excel-
lence.
Enrolled House Bill 2049 (HB 2049-B) Page 3
(Oregon Cybersecurity Center of Excellence)
SECTION 6. ORS 276A.329 is repealed and section 7 of this 2023 Act is enacted in lieu
thereof.
SECTION 7. Oregon Cybersecurity Center of Excellence.  (1)  The Oregon Cybersecurity
Center of Excellence is established at Portland State  University. The center shall operate
under the joint direction and control of Portland State  University, Oregon State University
and the University  of Oregon. A director shall be appointed to oversee the center pursuant
to procedures set forth in the  charter developed and adopted under subsection (5) of this
section.
(2) The purpose  of the center is to supplement the activities of the State Chief Informa-
tion Officer regarding cybersecurity in this state by coordinating, funding or providing:
(a) Awareness, education and training  about cybersecurity and cybersecurity-related is-
sues for public, private and nonprofit sectors;
(b) Cybersecurity workforce development programs in coordination with:
(A) Public universities listed in ORS 352.002;
(B) Community colleges operated under ORS chapter 341; and
(C) Science, technology, engineering and  mathematics and career and technical education
programs;
(c) Research about cybersecurity education and training methodologies;
(d) Research and development of cybersecurity technologies, tools, policies and processes;
and
(e) Cybersecurity-related goods and services to  Oregon public bodies, with priority given
to local governments, regional  governments, special districts, education service districts,
school districts and libraries.
(3) The center shall:
(a) Serve as the statewide advisory body to the  Legislative Assembly, Governor and State
Chief Information Officer on cybersecurity and  cybersecurity-related issues for local gov-
ernments, regional governments, special districts, education service districts, school  dis-
tricts and libraries.
(b) Provide to public, private and nonprofit  sectors in this state information and recom-
mend best practices  concerning cybersecurity, cyber resilience and recovery measures, in-
cluding legal, insurance and other topics.
(c) Coordinate the sharing  of information related to cybersecurity threats, risks,
warnings and incidents, and promote public awareness and shared,  real-time situational
awareness among public, private and nonprofit sector entities.
(d) Provide cybersecurity assessment, scanning and  analysis, monitoring and incident
response services to public bodies, with priority given to public bodies with the  greatest need
for services, including local governments, regional governments, special districts, education
service districts, school districts and libraries.
(e) Collaborate with public bodies to coordinate cybersecurity efforts with ongoing infor-
mation technology modernization and resilience projects.
(f) Identify and participate in appropriate federal, multistate, regional, state, local  or
private sector programs and efforts that support or complement the center’s purpose.
(g) Pursue and leverage federal sources of cybersecurity and cyber  resilience funding to
achieve state goals related to cybersecurity and cyber resilience.
(h) Manage and award funds  distributed to the center for cybersecurity and cyber
resilience initiatives.
(i) Encourage the development of Oregon’s cybersecurity workforce by, at a minimum:
(A) Identifying gaps and needs in workforce programs.
Enrolled House Bill 2049 (HB 2049-B) Page 4
(B) Fostering  the growth and development of cybersecurity workforce development pro-
grams and career and technical education in school districts, community  colleges operated
under ORS chapter 341, and public universities listed in ORS 352.002.
(C) Assisting in curriculum  review and standardization and providing recommendations
to improve programs.
(D) Fostering industry involvement  in internships, mentorship and apprenticeship pro-
grams and experiential learning programs.
(E) Building awareness  of industry and career opportunities to recruit students into
cyber-related educational tracks.
(4)(a) Portland State University, Oregon State University and the  University of Oregon
shall enter into an operating agreement for administering the center, including  the provision
of administrative and staff support and facilities.
(b) A public university listed in ORS 352.002, or a community college operated under ORS
chapter 341, not listed  in paragraph (a) of this subsection may join the operating agreement
and provide administrative and staff support and facilities. The process for joining the  oper-
ating agreement shall be described  in the operating agreement or the charter developed un-
der subsection (5) of this section.
(5) Portland State University, Oregon State University and the University of  Oregon, in
consultation with the Oregon Cybersecurity Advisory Council,  shall develop and adopt a
charter to serve as the governing  document for the center. The charter must contain pro-
visions regarding the center’s operations,  budget and any funds administered by the center
and the procedures for appointing the director to oversee  the center. Portland State Uni-
versity, Oregon State University and  the University of Oregon shall annually review and, as
necessary, update the charter.
(6) The center shall, in consultation with the council:
(a) Develop and update every  four years a strategic plan, including goals and objectives,
for the center.
(b) Develop and submit a report on the center’s  strategic goals and objectives, operations
and funding requests for continued operations and funds administered by the  center, to the
Governor and to the appropriate committees of the Legislative Assembly, in the manner  re-
quired by ORS 192.245, by February 1  of each odd-numbered year. The report must identify
any grants,  donations, gifts or other forms of conveyances of land, money, real or personal
property or other valuable thing made to the state or the center  for carrying out the pur-
poses of the center.
(c) Provide a statewide forum for discussing and resolving cybersecurity issues.
(7)(a) All agencies of state government are  directed to assist the center in the perform-
ance of the center’s duties and, to the extent permitted  by laws relating to confidentiality,
shall furnish information and advice the center considers necessary to  perform the center’s
duties.
(b) As used in this subsection, “state government” has  the meaning given that term in
ORS 174.111, except that “state government”  does not include the Secretary of State or State
Treasurer.
SECTION 8.
Center operating fund. (1) The Oregon Cybersecurity Center of Excellence
Operating Fund is established in the State Treasury, separate and distinct from  the General
Fund. Interest earned by the Oregon Cybersecurity Center of Excellence  Operating Fund
must be credited to the fund.
(2) Moneys in the fund shall consist of:
(a) Amounts donated to the fund;
(b) Amounts appropriated or otherwise transferred to the fund by the Legislative  As-
sembly; and
(c) Other amounts deposited in the fund from any source.
Enrolled House Bill 2049 (HB 2049-B) Page 5
(3) Moneys in the fund  are continuously appropriated to the Higher Education Coordi-
nating Commission for distribution to the Oregon Cybersecurity Center of Excellence for  the
purposes of carrying out the functions and operations of the center.
(4) The center shall submit to the Governor and to the appropriate committees  of the
Legislative Assembly, in the manner provided under ORS 192.245,  a biennial report that
summarizes the balance of the  fund, lists the deposits into and expenditures from the fund
and provides such other details as necessary regarding the operation of the fund.
SECTION 9. Cybersecurity workforce development fund.  (1) The Oregon  Cybersecurity
Workforce Development Fund is  established in the State Treasury, separate and distinct
from the General Fund. Interest earned  by the Oregon Cybersecurity Workforce Develop-
ment Fund must be credited to the fund.
(2) Moneys in the fund shall consist of:
(a) Amounts donated to the fund;
(b) Amounts  appropriated or otherwise transferred to the fund by the Legislative As-
sembly; and
(c) Other amounts deposited in the fund from any source.
(3) Moneys in the fund are continuously appropriated to  the Higher Education Coordi-
nating Commission for distribution to the Oregon Cybersecurity Center of Excellence for  the
purposes of making targeted investments in workforce development programs  designed to
accelerate the growth, qualifications and availability of Oregon’s cybersecurity workforce.
(4) The center  shall submit to the Governor and to the appropriate committees of the
Legislative Assembly, in the manner  provided under ORS 192.245, a biennial report that
summarizes the balance of the fund, lists the deposits into and  expenditures from the fund
and provides such other details as necessary regarding the operation of the fund.
SECTION 10.
Cybersecurity grant program fund.  (1) The Oregon Cybersecurity Grant
Program Fund is established in the State Treasury, separate and distinct  from the General
Fund. Interest earned  by the Oregon Cybersecurity Grant Program Fund must be credited
to the fund.
(2) Moneys in the fund shall consist of:
(a) Amounts donated to the fund;
(b) Amounts appropriated or otherwise transferred to the fund by the Legislative  As-
sembly; and
(c) Other amounts deposited in the fund from any source.
(3) Moneys in the fund  are continuously appropriated to the Higher Education Coordi-
nating Commission for distribution to the Oregon Cybersecurity Center of Excellence for  the
purposes of providing:
(a) Cybersecurity assessment,  scanning and analysis, monitoring, incident response and
technical assistance and other cybersecurity-related goods and services  to Oregon public
bodies on a competitive basis with specific emphasis on serving the unmet needs of local
governments, regional governments, special districts, education service districts, school dis-
tricts and libraries.
(b) Matching funds for federal moneys  related to cybersecurity received by public bodies.
(4) The center shall adopt standards, objectives, criteria and eligibility requirements for
the use of moneys distributed from the fund. In developing criteria and  eligibility standards,
the center shall take  into consideration any requirements of federal programs awarding
moneys related to cybersecurity.
(5) The center  shall submit to the Governor and to the appropriate committees of the
Legislative Assembly, in the manner  provided under ORS 192.245, a biennial report that
summarizes the balance of the fund, lists the deposits into and  expenditures from the fund
and provides such other details as necessary regarding the operation of the fund.
(Deadlines)
Enrolled House Bill 2049 (HB 2049-B) Page 6
SECTION 11. The biennial reports described in sections 8,  9 and 10 of this 2023 Act are
first due no later than December 31, 2025.
SECTION 12. Section 11 of this 2023 Act is repealed on January 2, 2026.
APPROPRIATIONS
SECTION 13. (1) In addition to and not  in lieu of any other appropriation, there is ap-
propriated to the Higher Education Coordinating Commission, for  the biennium beginning
July 1, 2023, out of the General Fund, the amount of  $2,500,000, to be deposited into the
Oregon Cybersecurity Center of  Excellence Operating Fund established under section 8 of
this 2023 Act.
(2) In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there is appropriated to  the
Higher Education Coordinating Commission,  for the biennium beginning July 1, 2023, out of
the General Fund, the amount of $2,150,000, to be deposited into the  Oregon Cybersecurity
Workforce Development Fund established under section 9 of this 2023 Act.
(3) In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there is appropriated to  the
Higher Education Coordinating Commission,  for the biennium beginning July 1, 2023, out of
the General Fund, the amount of $250,000, to be deposited into the  Oregon Cybersecurity
Grant Program Fund established under section 10 of this 2023 Act.
CAPTIONS
SECTION 14. The unit and section captions used in this 2023 Act are provided only for
the convenience of the reader and do not become part of the statutory law  of this state or
express any legislative intent in the enactment of this 2023 Act.
OPERATIVE AND EFFECTIVE DATES
SECTION 15. (1) Sections 1, 3 to 5 and 7 to 11 of this 2023 Act  and the repeal of ORS
276A.326 and 276A.329 by sections 2 and 6 of this  2023 Act become operative on October 1,
2023.
(2) The Governor, the State Chief Information  Officer, the Oregon Cybersecurity Advi-
sory Council, Portland  State University, Oregon State University and the University of
Oregon may take  any action before the operative date specified in subsection (1) of this
section that is necessary to  enable the Governor, the State Chief Information Officer, the
Oregon Cybersecurity Advisory Council, Portland State University, Oregon State University
and the University of Oregon to exercise, on and after the operative date  specified in sub-
section (1) of this section, all of the duties, functions and powers conferred on the Governor,
the State Chief Information Officer, the Oregon Cybersecurity Advisory Council,  Portland
State University, Oregon  State University and the University of Oregon by sections 1, 3 to
5 and 7 to 11 of this 2023 Act and the repeal of ORS 276A.326 and 276A.329 by sections 2 and
6 of this 2023 Act.
SECTION 16.
This 2023 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation  of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist, and  this 2023 Act takes effect
on its passage.
Enrolled House Bill 2049 (HB 2049-B) Page 7
Passed by House June 13, 2023
..................................................................................
Timothy G. Sekerak, Chief Clerk of House
..................................................................................
Dan Rayfield, Speaker of House
Passed by Senate June 22, 2023
..................................................................................
Rob Wagner, President of Senate
Received by Governor:
........................M.,........................................................., 2023
Approved:
........................M.,........................................................., 2023
..................................................................................
Tina Kotek, Governor
Filed in Office of Secretary of State:
........................M.,........................................................., 2023
..................................................................................
Secretary of State
Enrolled House Bill 2049 (HB 2049-B) Page 8