83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Enrolled
House Bill 2095
Introduced and printed pursuant to House Rule 12.00. Presession filed (at the request of House In-
terim Committee on Revenue for Representative Nancy Nathanson)
CHAPTER .................................................
AN ACT
Relating to revenue; amending ORS 315.271, 315.518 and 317.097 and section 9, chapter  765, Oregon
Laws 2007; and prescribing an effective date.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.  ORS 315.518 is amended to read:
315.518. (1) As used in this section, “qualified semiconductor company” means an entity whose
primary business is the research, design, development, fabrication, assembly, testing,  packaging or
validation of semiconductors, or an entity whose primary business is  the creation of semiconductor
manufacturing equipment, semiconductor  core intellectual property or electronic design automation
software that is primarily intended for use in the semiconductor industry.
(2) A credit against taxes  otherwise due under ORS chapter 316 or, if the taxpayer is a corpo-
ration, under ORS chapter 317 shall be allowed to eligible taxpayers for increases  in qualified re-
search expenses and basic research payments. The  credit shall be determined in accordance with
section 41 of the Internal Revenue Code, except as follows:
(a) The applicable percentage specified in section 41(a) of the Internal Revenue Code  shall be
15 percent.
(b) “Qualified research”  and “basic research” shall consist only of research conducted in Oregon
by a qualified semiconductor company, in support of  a trade or business directly related to semi-
conductors.
[(c) Section 41(c)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code (relating to the alternative incremental credit)
does not apply to the credit allowable under this section. ]
(3) The Income Tax Regulations as prescribed  by the Secretary of the Treasury under authority
of section 41 of the Internal Revenue Code apply for  purposes of this section, except as modified by
this section or as provided in rules adopted by the Department of Revenue.
(4) The maximum credit under this section may not exceed $4 million for any taxpayer.
(5) Prior to claiming a credit under this section, a taxpayer must obtain  from the Oregon Busi-
ness Development Department:
(a) If applicable, approval from the Oregon Business Development Department as provided in
section 5, chapter 298, Oregon Laws 2023.
(b) Certification as provided in ORS 315.522.
(6) The Oregon Business Development Department shall provide information  to the Department
of Revenue about all certifications issued under ORS 315.522, if required by ORS 315.058.
(7) The Director  of the Oregon Business Development Department may order the suspension or
revocation of a credit allowed under this section, as provided in ORS 315.061.
Enrolled House Bill 2095 (HB 2095-A) Page 1
(8) A deduction may not be taken for the portion of expenses or payments,  otherwise allowable
as a deduction, that is equal to the amount of the credit claimed under this section.
(9) Notwithstanding ORS 317.090  (3), the refundable portion of a credit under this section is al-
lowed against the  tax imposed under ORS 317.090 and may reduce the tax imposed under ORS
317.090 to zero. Any remaining amount of credit above the minimum shall be refunded as  provided
in ORS 315.519.
(10) Any tax credit that is otherwise allowable  under this section and that is not used by the
taxpayer in that year may be carried forward  and offset against the taxpayer’s tax liability for the
next succeeding tax year. Any credit remaining unused  in such next succeeding tax year may be
carried forward and used in  the second succeeding tax year, and likewise any credit not used in that
second succeeding tax year may be carried  forward and used in the third succeeding tax year, and
any credit not used in that third succeeding tax year may be carried forward and used in the  fourth
succeeding tax year, and any credit not used in that fourth  succeeding tax year may be carried
forward and used in the fifth succeeding tax year, but may not be carried forward for any tax  year
thereafter.
SECTION 2.  ORS 317.097, as amended by section 25, chapter 75, Oregon Laws  2024, is amended
to read:
317.097. (1) As used in this section:
(a) “Annual rate” means the  yearly interest rate specified on the note, and not the annual per-
centage rate, if any, disclosed to the applicant to comply with the federal Truth in Lending Act.
(b) “Bonds” means a bond, as defined in ORS 286A.001, if issued on behalf of the Housing  and
Community Services Department, or bonds, as defined in ORS 456.055, if issued by a housing  au-
thority.
(c) “Finance charge” means the total of all interest, loan  fees, interest on any loan fees financed
by the lending institution, and other charges related to the cost of obtaining credit.
(d) “Lending institution” means any insured institution, as that term is defined  in ORS 706.008,
any mortgage banking company that maintains an office  in this state or any community development
corporation that is organized under the Oregon Nonprofit Corporation Law.
(e) “Limited equity cooperative” means  a cooperative corporation formed under ORS chapter 62
whose articles of incorporation, in addition to the other requirements  of ORS chapter 62, prohibit
members from selling their ownership interests:
(A) To any person other than a low income person; or
(B) For a sales price that exceeds the sum of:
(i) The price the member paid for the ownership interest;
(ii) The cost of any permanent improvements the member made to the housing  unit during the
member’s ownership;
(iii) Any special assessments the member paid to the  limited equity cooperative during the
member’s ownership that were expended to make permanent improvements to the building in  which
the member’s housing unit is located; and
(iv) A return on the amounts described in sub-subparagraphs (i) to (iii) of  this subparagraph,
computed from the year in which the respective amount was paid,  that equals the greater of the
result of adjusting each amount by the  percentage increase, if any, in the Consumer Price Index for
All Urban Consumers, West Region (All Items), as published by the Bureau of Labor  Statistics of
the United States Department of Labor, or of  increasing each amount by three percent compounded
annually.
(f) “Manufactured dwelling park” has the meaning given that term in ORS 446.003.
(g) “Nonprofit corporation” means a corporation that  is exempt from income taxes under section
501(c)(3) or (4) of the Internal Revenue Code as amended and in effect on December 31, 2023.
(h) “Preservation project” means housing that was previously developed as affordable housing
with a contract for rent assistance  from the United States Department of Housing and Urban De-
velopment or the United States Department of Agriculture and that is being acquired  by a spon-
soring entity.
Enrolled House Bill 2095 (HB 2095-A) Page 2
(i) “Qualified assignee” means any investor participating  in the secondary market for real estate
loans.
(j) “Qualified borrower” means any borrower that is a sponsoring entity  that has a controlling
interest in the real property that is financed by a qualified  loan. A controlling interest includes a
controlling interest in the general partner of a limited partnership that owns the real property.
(k) “Qualified loan” means:
(A) A  loan that meets the criteria stated in subsection (5) of this section or that is made to re-
finance a loan that meets the criteria described in subsection (5) of this section; or
(B) The purchase by a lending institution  of bonds, the proceeds of which are used to finance
or refinance a loan that meets the criteria described in subsection (5) of this section.
(L) “Sponsoring entity” means a nonprofit corporation,  nonprofit cooperative, state govern-
mental entity, local unit of government as defined in  ORS 466.706, housing authority or any other
person, provided that the person has agreed to  restrictive covenants imposed by a nonprofit corpo-
ration, nonprofit cooperative, state  governmental entity, local unit of government or housing au-
thority.
(2) The Department of Revenue shall allow a credit against taxes  otherwise due under this
chapter for the tax year to a lending institution that  makes a qualified loan certified by the Housing
and Community Services Department as provided in subsection  (7) of this section. The amount of the
credit is equal to the difference between:
(a) The amount of finance charge charged by the lending institution during the tax year at an
annual rate less than the  market rate for a qualified loan [ that is made before January 1, 2026, ] that
complies with the requirements of this section; and
(b) The amount of finance charge that would have been  charged during the tax year by the
lending institution for the qualified  loan for housing construction, development, acquisition or re-
habilitation measured at the annual  rate charged by the lending institution for nonsubsidized loans
made under like terms and conditions at the time the qualified  loan for housing construction, de-
velopment, acquisition or rehabilitation is made.
(3) The maximum amount of credit for the difference between the  amounts described in sub-
section (2)(a) and  (b) of this section may not exceed four percent of the average unpaid balance of
the qualified loan during the tax year for which the credit is claimed.
(4) Any tax credit allowed under this section that is not used by  the taxpayer in a particular
year may be  carried forward and offset against the taxpayer’s tax liability for the next succeeding
tax year. Any credit remaining unused in the next succeeding tax year may be  carried forward and
used in the second succeeding  tax year, and likewise, any credit not used in that second succeeding
tax year may be carried forward  and used in the third succeeding tax year, and any credit not used
in that  third succeeding tax year may be carried forward and used in the fourth succeeding tax year,
and any credit not used in that fourth succeeding tax year may be carried forward and used in the
fifth succeeding tax year, but may not be carried forward for any tax year thereafter.
(5) To be eligible for the tax credit  allowable under this section, a lending institution must make
a qualified loan by either purchasing bonds, the proceeds of which are used to finance or  refinance
a loan that meets the criteria stated in this subsection, or making a loan directly to:
(a) An individual or individuals who own  a dwelling, participate in an owner-occupied commu-
nity rehabilitation program and are certified by the  local government or its designated agent as
having an income level when the loan is made of 80 percent of the area median income or less;
(b) A qualified borrower who:
(A) Uses the loan proceeds to  finance construction, development, acquisition or rehabilitation
of housing, including housing in the form of a limited equity cooperative; and
(B) Provides  a written certification executed by the Housing and Community Services Depart-
ment that the:
(i) Housing created by the loan is or will be occupied by households earning  80 percent of the
area median income or less; and
Enrolled House Bill 2095 (HB 2095-A) Page 3
(ii) Full amount of savings from the reduced interest rate provided by the lending  institution is
or will be passed on, in the form of reduced housing payments, to the tenants or to the holders  of
proprietary leases in a limited equity cooperative;
(c) Subject to subsection (14) of this section, a qualified borrower who:
(A) Uses the loan proceeds to  finance construction, development, acquisition or rehabilitation
of housing consisting of a manufactured dwelling park; and
(B) Provides  a written certification executed by the Housing and Community Services Depart-
ment that  the housing will continue to be operated as a manufactured dwelling park during the pe-
riod for which the tax credit is allowed;
(d) A qualified borrower who:
(A) Uses the loan proceeds  to finance acquisition or rehabilitation of housing consisting of a
preservation project; and
(B) Provides a written certification executed by the Housing and Community Services  Depart-
ment that the housing preserved by the loan:
(i) Is or will be occupied by households earning 80 percent of the area median income or  less;
and
(ii) Is the subject of a rent  assistance contract with the United States Department of Housing
and Urban Development or the United States Department of Agriculture  that will be maintained by
the qualified borrower; or
(e) A qualified borrower who:
(A) Uses the loan proceeds to finance  construction, development, acquisition or rehabilitation
of housing; and
(B) Provides a written certification executed by the Housing and Community Services  Depart-
ment or the governmental party to the rent assistance contract that the  housing preserved by the
loan:
(i) Is  or will be occupied by households earning 80 percent of the area median income or less;
and
(ii) Is the  subject of a rent assistance contract with the federal government or with a state or
local  government  that will be maintained by the qualified borrower and that limits a tenant’s rent
to no more than 30 percent of their income.
(6) A loan made to refinance a loan that meets  the criteria stated in subsection (5) of this sec-
tion must be treated the same  as a loan that meets the criteria stated in subsection (5) of this sec-
tion.
(7) For a qualified loan  to be eligible for the tax credit allowable under this section, the Housing
and Community Services Department must execute a  written certification for the qualified loan that:
(a) States that the qualified loan is within the limitation imposed by subsection (8) of this  sec-
tion; and
(b) Specifies the period, as determined by the Housing and Community Services  Department,
during which the tax credit is allowed for the qualified loan, not to exceed:
(A) 30 years, for a qualified loan with a contract for rent assistance or financing  resources from
the United States Department of Agriculture, for new housing  construction, acquisition of housing
or a preservation project; or
(B) 20 years, for any other type of qualified loan.
(8) The Housing and Community Services Department may certify qualified loans that are eligi-
ble under subsection (5) of this section if the total credits attributable  to all qualified loans eligible
for credits under this section and then outstanding do not exceed  $35 million for any fiscal year. In
making loan certifications under subsection (7) of this section, the Housing and Community  Services
Department shall attempt to distribute the tax credits statewide,  but shall concentrate the tax
credits in those areas of the state  that are determined by the Oregon Housing Stability Council to
have the greatest need for affordable housing.
(9) The tax credit provided for in this section may be taken whether or not:
Enrolled House Bill 2095 (HB 2095-A) Page 4
(a) The financial institution is eligible to take a federal  income tax credit under section 42 of
the Internal Revenue Code with respect to the project financed by the qualified loan; or
(b) The project receives financing from  bonds, the interest on which is exempt from federal
taxation under section 103 of the Internal Revenue Code.
(10) For a qualified loan defined in  subsection (1)(k)(B) of this section financed through the
purchase of bonds, the interest of which is exempt from federal taxation under section 103 of the
Internal Revenue Code, the amount of finance charge that would have been  charged under sub-
section (2)(b) of this section is determined by reference to the finance charge that would  have been
charged if the federally tax exempt bonds had been issued and the tax credit under  this section did
not apply.
(11) A lending institution may sell a qualified loan for which a certification  has been executed
to a qualified assignee whether or not the lending institution retains servicing of the qualified  loan
so long as a designated lending institution maintains records, annually verified by a loan  servicer,
that establish the amount of tax credit earned by the taxpayer throughout each year of eligibility.
(12) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a lending  institution that is a community de-
velopment corporation organized under the Oregon Nonprofit Corporation Law may transfer all or
part of  a tax credit allowed under this section to one or more other lending institutions that are
stockholders or members of the community development corporation or  that otherwise participate
through the community development corporation in the making of one or more qualified loans  for
which the tax credit under this section is allowed.
(13) The  lending institution shall file an annual statement with the Housing and Community
Services Department, specifying that it has conformed with all requirements imposed by law  to
qualify for a tax credit under this section.
(14) Notwithstanding subsection (1)(j) and (L)  of this section, a qualified borrower on a loan to
finance the construction, development, acquisition or rehabilitation of a manufactured dwelling  park
under subsection (5)(c) of this section must be:
(a) A nonprofit corporation, manufactured  dwelling park nonprofit cooperative, state govern-
mental entity, local unit of government as defined in ORS 466.706 or housing authority; or
(b) A  nonprofit corporation or housing authority that has a controlling interest in the real
property that is financed by a qualified  loan. A controlling interest includes a controlling interest
in the general partner of a limited partnership that owns the real property.
(15) The Department of Revenue may require that a lending institution  that has earned the
credit and a lending institution that intends  to claim the credit jointly file a notice, as prescribed
by the Department of Revenue. The notice must comply with ORS 315.056 (2) or 315.058 (2).
(16) The Housing and Community Services Department shall provide information to the  Depart-
ment of Revenue about all certifications executed under this section, if required by ORS 315.058.
(17) The Housing and  Community Services Department and the Department of Revenue may
adopt rules to carry out the provisions of this section.
SECTION 3.
 ORS 315.271 is amended to read:
315.271. (1) A credit against taxes otherwise due under ORS  chapter 316, 317 or 318 shall be
allowed for donations to a fiduciary organization for  distribution to individual development accounts
established under  ORS 458.685. The credit shall equal a percentage of the taxpayer’s donation
amount, as determined by  the fiduciary organization, but not to exceed 90 percent of any donation
amount. A credit may be  claimed for a donation made not later than April 15 following December
31 of the tax year  for which the credit is allowed. [ To qualify for a credit under this section, do-
nations to a fiduciary organization must be made prior to April 15, 2028. ]
(2) If a credit allowed under this section is claimed, the amount upon which the credit is  based
that is allowed or allowable as a  deduction from federal taxable income under section 170 of the
Internal Revenue  Code shall be added to federal taxable income in determining Oregon taxable in-
come. As  used in this subsection, the amount upon which a credit is based is the allowed credit di-
vided by the applicable percentage, as determined by the fiduciary organization.
Enrolled House Bill 2095 (HB 2095-A) Page 5
(3) The allowable tax credit that may be used in any one tax year shall not exceed the  tax li-
ability of the taxpayer.
(4) Any tax credit otherwise allowable under  this section that is not used by the taxpayer in a
particular year may be carried  forward and offset against the taxpayer’s tax liability for the next
succeeding tax year. Any tax credit remaining unused  in the next succeeding tax year may be car-
ried forward and  used in the second succeeding tax year. Any tax credit not used in the second
succeeding tax year may be carried forward and  used in the third succeeding tax year, but may not
be carried forward for any tax year thereafter.
(5) The total credits allowed to all  taxpayers in any tax year under this section and ORS 458.690
may not exceed $7.5 million.  The total credit allowed to a taxpayer in any tax year under this sec-
tion and ORS 458.690 may not exceed $500,000.
SECTION 4.  Section 9, chapter  765, Oregon Laws 2007, as amended by section 7, chapter 701,
Oregon  Laws  2015, section 7, chapter 525, Oregon Laws 2021, and section 16, chapter 490, Oregon
Laws 2023, is amended to read:
Sec. 9.  (1) A credit may not be claimed under ORS 315.271 and 458.690 for tax years beginning
on or after January 1, 2030.
(2) For a taxpayer to qualify for a credit under ORS 315.271, donations to  a fiduciary or-
ganization must be made prior to April 15, 2030.
[(2)] (3) The amendments to ORS 315.271 by section 6, chapter 525, Oregon Laws  2021, apply to
tax years beginning on or after January 1, 2022, and before January 1, 2030.
SECTION 5. This 2025 Act takes effect on the 91st day after the date  on which the 2025
regular session of the Eighty-third Legislative Assembly adjourns sine die.
Passed by House May 29, 2025
..................................................................................
Timothy G. Sekerak, Chief Clerk of House
..................................................................................
Julie Fahey, Speaker of House
Passed by Senate June 17, 2025
..................................................................................
Rob Wagner, President of Senate
Received by Governor:
........................M.,........................................................., 2025
Approved:
........................M.,........................................................., 2025
..................................................................................
Tina Kotek, Governor
Filed in Office of Secretary of State:
........................M.,........................................................., 2025
..................................................................................
Tobias Read, Secretary of State
Enrolled House Bill 2095 (HB 2095-A) Page 6