1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 11
Sponsored by Senator THATCHER, Representative DIEHL; Senator WEBER (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act makes police ask if a person is a citizen if the person has a gun and  is being
arrested for a crime. The Act also makes police  notify ICE if the person is not a citizen. (Flesch
Readability Score: 71.7).
Directs an arresting officer to inquire about citizenship when the officer arrests  a person for a
crime and the person is in possession of a firearm. Directs the arresting officer to  notify federal
immigration authorities if the person is not a citizen.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to the possession of firearms by noncitizens.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) Notwithstanding ORS 181A.820 and 181A.822 to 181A.829:
(a) When a person is arrested for a crime and is found to be in possession of a  firearm
at the time of arrest, the arresting officer shall inquire whether the person is a citizen.
(b) If the arresting officer  learns, after conducting the inquiry under paragraph (a) of
this subsection, that the arrested person is not a citizen, the arresting officer shall:
(A) Immediately notify federal immigration authorities and provide the person’s name,
crime of arrest and any other requested information.
(B) Cooperate, to the extent practicable, with any investigation resulting from the no-
tification.
(2) As used  in this section, “federal immigration authorities” means agents of the United
States Immigration and  Customs Enforcement, or a successor agency, who receive reports
of and investigate violations of immigration law.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 190