1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2824
Sponsored by Representative EVANS (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Requires CCO drug outlets to give certain veterans a 7-day supply of a  drug at no cost
if the veteran cannot get the drug from the VA. (Flesch Readability Score: 66.6).
Requires coordinated care organization drug outlets  to dispense a seven-day supply of a pre-
scription drug to a veteran with a disability, at no cost to the veteran, if the veteran is unable to
obtain the prescription drug through the United States Department of Veterans Affairs.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to prescription drugs for veterans.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) As used in this section:
(a) “Coordinated care organization” has the meaning given that term in ORS 414.025.
(b) “Drug outlet” has the meaning given that term in ORS 689.005.
(c) “Veteran with a disability” means a veteran who has a United  States Department of
Veterans Affairs disability rating of at least 50 percent.
(2) A drug outlet, registered in this state,  that contracts with or is part of a coordinated
care organization shall dispense to  a veteran with a disability a seven-day supply, at no cost,
of a prescription drug prescribed by  a provider associated with a hospital or clinic of the
United States Department  of Veterans Affairs if the veteran is unable to obtain the pre-
scription drug from the hospital or clinic.
(3) A drug outlet may not require a veteran  to provide documentation that the veteran
is unable to obtain  the prescription drug from the hospital or clinic but shall accept as true
the veteran’s attestation.
(4) A drug outlet may limit  the number of dispensings under subsection (2) of this section
to no more than one per calendar quarter for each veteran.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2312