1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
79th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2017 Regular Session
House Joint Resolution 29
Sponsored by Representatives NOBLE,  NEARMAN; Representatives BARRETO, HEARD, KENNEMER, POST,
RESCHKE, SMITH DB, WHISNANT
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced.
Proposes amendment to Oregon Constitution to require three-fifths majority of each house to
pass budget bills.
Refers proposed amendment to people for their approval or rejection at next  regular general
election.
JOINT RESOLUTION
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
PARAGRAPH 1.  Section 25, Article IV  of the Constitution of the State of Oregon, is amended
to read:
Sec. 25.  (1) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (2) of this section, a majority  of all the
members elected to each [ House] house shall be necessary to pass every bill or Joint resolution.
(2)(a) Three-fifths of all members elected to each [ House] house shall be  necessary to pass bills
for raising revenue.
(b) Three-fifths of all members elected to each house  shall be necessary to pass budget
bills.
(3) All bills, and Joint resolutions passed, shall be signed by the presiding officers of the  re-
spective houses.
(4) As used in this section, “budget bill” means a  bill that appropriates moneys or im-
poses a limitation on expenditures of  continuously appropriated moneys and that is prohib-
ited from containing provisions  on other subjects under section 7, Article IX of this
Constitution.
PARAGRAPH 2. The amendment proposed by this resolution shall be submitted to the
people for their approval or rejection at the next  regular general election held throughout
this state.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 3528