1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2023 Regular Session
Senate Bill 407
Sponsored by Senator PATTERSON, Representative BOWMAN (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Directs Department of Early  Learning and Care to develop, implement and administer Oregon
Imagination Library Project  to improve reading proficiency and high school graduation rates by
providing enrolled children with one age-appropriate book per child each month.
Establishes Oregon Imagination  Library Account within Early Learning Division Fund for pur-
poses of funding project.
Declares emergency, effective July 1, 2023.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to encouragement of reading in young children; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Oregon Imagination Library Project  is established for the purpose
of improving third-grade reading proficiency and high school  graduation rates by providing
free books to young children in this state.
(2)(a) The Department of Early Learning and  Care shall develop, implement and admin-
ister the project. The department shall  ensure that, under the project, every enrolled child
has the opportunity to receive an age-appropriate book each month.
(b) A child is eligible to be enrolled if the child is at  least four years of age and has not
started kindergarten.
(c) Notwithstanding paragraph (b) of this subsection,  the department may determine that
children younger than four years of age may be eligible to be  enrolled if resources are
available to enroll younger children.
(3) For the purpose of administering the  project, the department may enter into a con-
tract with:
(a) A national book gifting foundation that works  in collaboration with local nonprofit
organizations and government agencies to provide free books to children from  birth until the
children begin school.
(b) One or more school districts, nonprofit organizations  or other entities that are ex-
empt from taxation under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code to collaborate  with
the department to:
(A) Provide outreach to local communities about the project;
(B) Recruit volunteers to assist in the  implementation and administration of the project;
(C) Solicit donations, gifts and other funding to financially support the project;
(D) Develop a process for enrolling children in the project; or
(E) Enroll children in the project.
(4) The department may require that any nonprofit organization or  other entity that is
exempt from taxation under section 501(c)(3) of the  Internal Revenue Code and that enters
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2252
SB 407
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
into a contract with  the department provide a matching amount of at least 50 percent of the
funds required to carry out the project as described in the contract.
(5) The department may  create an advisory committee to advise the department and
make recommendations on how best to develop, implement and administer the project.
(6) The Early Learning Council, in consultation with the department, may adopt  rules to
implement the provisions of this section.
SECTION 2.
(1) The Oregon Imagination Library Account is established within  the Early
Learning Division Fund. Separate records shall be maintained for moneys in  the account.
Interest earned by the account shall be credited to the account.
(2) Moneys in the account are continuously appropriated to the Department of  Early
Learning and Care for the Oregon Imagination Library Project described in section 1 of this
2023 Act.
SECTION 3.
This 2023 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist,  and this 2023 Act takes effect
July 1, 2023.
[2]