1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
81st OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2021 Regular Session
House Bill 2503
Sponsored by Representative NERON (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Expands eligibility for certain child care subsidy programs. Transfers rulemaking  authority for
programs from Department of Human  Services to Early Learning Council. Directs council to adopt
rules to implement changes  to programs. Provides that when federal funds are involved, federal child
subsidy program requirements control.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to child care subsidy programs; amending ORS 329A.500.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 329A.500 is amended to read:
329A.500. [ (1) The Department of Human Services,  in consultation with the Early Learning Divi-
sion and the Office of Child Care, shall adopt  rules for the operation of subsidy programs for
employment-related child care administered by the department. At a minimum,  and taking into account
the availability of funds, the rules must provide the following: ]
[(a) Subsidy recipients may be entitled to receive the subsidy for at least one year, regardless of
changes in employment. Rules adopted by the department may provide  for termination of subsidy el-
igibility for reasons other than  changes in employment during the one-year period. Exit eligibility and
copays must be structured to mitigate the financial impact  of reduced subsidy support due to increased
income.]
[(b) Subsidy recipients who are enrolled in coursework, as defined by the  department by rule, may
be entitled to  receive the subsidy to enable the subsidy recipient to attend and participate in the
coursework provided all other eligibility requirements are met. ]
[(c) Persons who are  self-employed may qualify for subsidy programs provided all other eligibility
requirements are met. ]
[(d) Subsidy recipients who voluntarily choose child care providers that meet minimum standards
established under  the tiered quality rating and improvement system implemented under ORS 329A.261
may qualify for lower copayments. A fair representation of the subsidy recipients who  qualify for lower
copayments must be persons with children who are from underserved racial, ethnic or minority  popu-
lations. In addition, child care providers that meet specified minimum standards established under  the
tiered quality  rating and improvement system may receive an enhanced reimbursement under the sub-
sidy programs. ]
[(e) Subsidy recipients must report a change of child care provider to the department during the
period a subsidy is being received. ]
(1) The Early Learning Council shall adopt rules  for the operation of child care subsidy
programs administered by the Early Learning Division.
(2) The rules adopted under this section  must support a statewide plan for equitable ac-
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2217
HB 2503
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
cess to a supply of culturally  diverse child care providers, consistent with the diverse needs
of subsidy program participants. The council shall develop, by rule, factors for  assessing
whether the equitable access standard of this subsection has been met.
(3) At a minimum,  and taking into account the availability of funds, the rules must pro-
vide that:
(a) A child is eligible to participate in the subsidy program regardless of  the citizenship
or legal status of the child or the child’s caretaker.
(b) A child who meets  the eligibility requirements under subsection (4)(a) of this section
is entitled to receive the child care subsidy for at least 12 months.
(c) If the child’s caretaker is responsible for a copayment for the  child care, the
copayment shall be determined by the council on a sliding scale based on a percentage of the
household income of the child’s caretaker, not to exceed seven percent.
(d) The child’s caretaker report  any change in child care provider to the Early Learning
Division during the period in which a subsidy is being received.
(e) The rate of reimbursement reflect the true cost of providing care.
(f) Subsidy program payments to  child care providers be made in advance by no later
than the fifth day of the month during which  the child care will be provided and be based
on enrollment.
(4) The rules developed under this section may provide that:
(a) A child’s eligibility to  participate in the subsidy program be based on the household
income of the child’s caretaker, the child’s family circumstances or any other criteria  es-
tablished by the council.
(b) The subsidy be used for child care during  the hours that the child’s caretaker is un-
available, regardless of  whether the child’s caretaker is physically present during the period
of unavailability or whether the child care  occurs in the child’s home or at a different lo-
cation.
(c) The child’s caretaker be responsible for a copayment for the child care.
(d) The  child care subsidy program enter into contracts directly with the child care pro-
vider or provide vouchers for child care to the caretakers of eligible children, or both.
(e) A child care provider be eligible for a higher rate of reimbursement or other financial
incentives for participating in quality improvement measures or for providing:
(A) Culturally or linguistically specific or appropriate care;
(B) Evening, overnight or weekend care;
(C) Care to children with diagnosed disabilities or delays;
(D) Care to a population that the council  has identified by rule as historically having an
inadequate child care provider supply; or
(E) Any other specialized care that justifies a higher rate of  reimbursement, as deter-
mined by the council on a case-by-case basis.
(5) In developing rules under this section, the council shall  consider policies for increas-
ing the stability and continuity of children’s access to preferred child care providers.
[(2)] (6)(a)  The [ department] council shall work to meet federal recommendations for income el-
igibility and market access in regard to employment-related child  care administered by the [ depart-
ment] Early Learning Division .
(b) In all cases when  federally granted funds are involved, the federal laws, rules and
regulations applicable to  the funds shall govern notwithstanding any provision to the con-
[2]
HB 2503
1
2
3
4
trary in this section or any rules adopted by the council pursuant to this section.
(7) As used in this section, “caretaker” means an  individual who is responsible for the
care, control and supervision of a child.
[3]