1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 512
Sponsored by Senator SMITH DB, Representatives OSBORNE, BOICE (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act tells an agency to operate a fish  hatchery at the Rock Creek Hatchery. The
Act tells the  agency to release the hatchery fish into a river. The Act gives money for those activ-
ities. (Flesch Readability Score: 64.4).
Directs the State Fish and Wildlife Commission to operate a summer steelhead fish hatchery at
the Rock Creek Hatchery and release the hatchery fish into the North Umpqua River.
Appropriates moneys to  the commission out of the General Fund for operating the hatchery and
releasing the hatchery fish.
Declares an emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to the Rock Creek Hatchery; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
The State Fish and Wildlife Commission shall:
(1) Operate a summer steelhead fish hatchery at the Rock Creek Hatchery; and
(2) Release the hatchery fish from the Rock Creek Hatchery into the North Umpqua
River.
SECTION 2.
In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there  is appropri-
ated to the State Fish and Wildlife Commission, for the biennium beginning  July 1, 2025, out
of the General Fund, the amount of $2,000,000 for the purpose of  carrying out the provisions
of section 1 of this 2025 Act.
SECTION 3. This 2025 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the  public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is  declared to exist, and this 2025 Act takes effect
on its passage.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1312