1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 803
Printed pursuant to  Senate Interim Rule 213.28 by order of the President of the Senate in conformance with pre-
session filing rules,  indicating neither advocacy nor opposition on the part of the President (at the request
of Governor Tina Kotek for Oregon Military Department)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Allows efforts to make the SSLI program more open to members of the  National Guard.
(Flesch Readability Score: 65.7).
Requires the Adjutant General to allow efforts to make  the state-sponsored life insurance pro-
gram available to members of the Oregon National Guard.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to the state-sponsored life insurance program for Oregon National Guard members.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) As used in this section, “state-sponsored life insurance program” means
the group life insurance program allowed under 37 U.S.C. 707 and exclusively offered to  all
members of the Oregon National Guard through the Oregon National Guard Association.
(2) The Adjutant General shall, at the discretion of the Adjutant General:
(a) Allow efforts to make the state-sponsored life insurance program  available to all
members of the Oregon National Guard;
(b) Provide opportunities for members of the Oregon  National Guard to purchase pro-
ducts from the state-sponsored life insurance program; and
(c) Allow representatives from  the state-sponsored life insurance program to provide in-
formation through briefings on the state-sponsored life  insurance program to members of
the Oregon National Guard during active and inactive duty training periods.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 311