1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 828
Printed pursuant to  Senate Interim Rule 213.28 by order of the President of the Senate in conformance with pre-
session filing rules,  indicating neither advocacy nor opposition on the part of the President (at the request
of Governor Tina Kotek for State Department of Energy)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Creates the Grid Resilience Matching Fund. (Flesch Readability Score: 73.8).
Establishes the Grid Resilience Matching Fund. Appropriates moneys in the fund to the State
Department of Energy to provide state matching funds for federal grant funding for  grid resilience
projects.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to grid resilience.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Grid Resilience Matching Fund is established in  the State Treasury,
separate and distinct from the General Fund. Moneys in  the Grid Resilience Matching Fund
shall consist of moneys appropriated or otherwise transferred to the fund by the  Legislative
Assembly and other moneys deposited into the fund from any other source.
(2) All moneys in the fund are continuously appropriated  to the State Department of
Energy for the purposes of providing state matching funds to leverage federal grant  funding
for grid resilience projects, and for related administrative costs of the department.
(3) Not later than December 31 of each  even-numbered year, the department shall report,
in the manner provided in ORS 192.245, to the interim  committees of the Legislative As-
sembly related to energy regarding the  expenditures of moneys in the fund and the status
of grid resilience projects that have received moneys from the fund.
(4) The department may adopt rules necessary for the administration of this section.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 384