1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
81st OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2021 Regular Session
House Bill 2228
Sponsored by Representative WILDE (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Requires public office holder or candidate for public  office who uses campaign contributions for
travel outside of Oregon to file statement on ORESTAR stating whether travel is for official  duties
or campaign purposes and identifying name and  mailing address of any other persons paying for part
of travel expenses.
Prohibits use of campaign moneys for international travel unless travel directly relates to offi-
cial duties.
Prohibits state Senator, state Representative or candidate for state Senator  or state Represen-
tative from  using campaign moneys for travel outside of Oregon during regular session or special
session of Legislative Assembly.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to use of campaign moneys.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
Section 2 of this 2021 Act is added to and made a part of ORS chapter 260.
SECTION 2. (1) A candidate, a holder of  public office or the principal campaign commit-
tee of a candidate or a holder of public office may use amounts received as contributions by
the candidate, holder of public  office or committee to make an expenditure that directly or
indirectly relates to travel  outside of the state of Oregon only if the candidate, holder of
public office or committee uses the electronic filing system adopted under ORS  260.057 to file
with the Secretary of State a statement that:
(a) States whether the travel is for identified official duties as a public official or  for
campaign purposes; and
(b) Identifies the name and mailing address of any other persons that are  paying for a
portion of the travel by the candidate or holder of public office.
(2) Notwithstanding subsection (1) of this section:
(a) A candidate, a holder  of public office or the principal campaign committee of a can-
didate or a holder of public office may not use amounts received as contributions by  the
candidate, holder of public office or committee to make an expenditure that directly or  in-
directly relates to travel outside of the United States unless the travel  directly relates to
official duties as a public official.
(b) A  state Senator, state Representative or candidate or principal campaign committee
for a candidate for the office of state Senator or state Representative may not use amounts
received as contributions  by the candidate, holder of public office or committee to make an
expenditure that directly or indirectly relates  to travel outside of the state of Oregon during
a regular session or special session of the Legislative Assembly.
(3) The Secretary of State may enact rules to implement this section.
(4) As used in this  section, “public official” has the meaning given that term in ORS
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1186
HB 2228
1
2
244.020.
[2]