1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Joint Resolution 19
Sponsored by Representative EVANS
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act  proposes a change to the Constitution to let some judges be taken out of office.
The Act refers the change to the people at the next regular  general election. (Flesch Readability
Score: 62.8).
Proposes an amendment to the Oregon Constitution to vest  the power of impeachment of certain
judges in the House of Representatives and  the power to try impeachments in the Senate. Requires
a two-thirds  majority vote of the House of Representatives to deliver an impeachment resolution to
the Senate and a two-thirds majority vote of the  Senate for conviction. Limits the judgment to re-
moval from office and disqualification from holding other public office in this state.
Refers the proposed amendment to the people for their approval or rejection at the next regular
general election.
JOINT RESOLUTION
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
PARAGRAPH 1.
 The Constitution of the State of Oregon is amended by creating a new  section
35 to be added to and made  a part of Article IV, and by amending section 8, Article VII (Amended),
such sections to read:
SECTION 35. (1) The House  of Representatives shall have the power of impeachment of
a judge who first occupied the judge’s position  by appointment under section 16, Article V
of this Constitution, regardless of whether the judge has been elected  to the position since
the initial appointment. A judge may be impeached under this section for malfeasance or
corrupt conduct in office, willful  neglect of statutory or constitutional duty or other felony
or high crime. The House of Representatives may deliver a resolution of impeachment to the
Senate only upon the concurrence of at least two-thirds of all Representatives.
(2) The  Senate shall have the power to try any impeachment received from the House
of Representatives. When sitting  for the purpose of trying an impeachment, the Chief Justice
of the Supreme Court  shall preside and Senators shall swear or affirm to do justice according
to law and evidence. A judge  may not be convicted under this section without the concur-
rence of at least two-thirds of all Senators.
(3) Judgment shall extend only to  removal from office and disqualification from holding
any other public office  in this state. Any judge convicted or acquitted under this section re-
mains subject to any criminal prosecution or civil liability according to law.
(4) Section 10a of this Article may be invoked for the purpose of exercising the power  of
impeachment under this section.
Sec. 8.  (1) In the manner provided by law, and notwithstanding section 1 of this  Article, a judge
of any court may be removed or suspended  from his judicial office by the Supreme Court, or
censured by the Supreme Court, for:
(a) Conviction in a court of this or any other state, or of the United States, of a crime
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 4225
HJR 19
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
punishable as a felony or a crime involving moral turpitude; or
(b) Wilful misconduct in a  judicial office where such misconduct bears a demonstrable relation-
ship to the effective performance of judicial duties; or
(c) Wilful or persistent failure to perform judicial duties; or
(d) Generally incompetent performance of judicial duties; or
(e) Wilful  violation of any rule of judicial conduct as shall be established by the Supreme Court;
or
(f) Habitual drunkenness or illegal use of narcotic or dangerous drugs.
(2) Notwithstanding section 6 of this Article, the methods provided in  this section, section 1a
of this Article  and in section 18, Article II , and section 35, Article IV  of this Constitution, are the
exclusive methods of the removal, suspension, or censure of a judge.
PARAGRAPH 2.
The amendment proposed by this resolution shall be submitted to  the
people for their approval or rejection  at the next regular general election held throughout
this state.
[2]