1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 3492
Sponsored by Representative GRAYBER
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act tells DOGAMI to study and report on risks related to toxic substances that
may be released in an earthquake. (Flesch Readability Score: 60.6).
Directs the State  Department of Geology and Mineral Industries to study risks and issues re-
lating to earthquake-induced dispersion of hazardous materials.  Requires the department to submit
a report on the study to the State Resilience Officer by December 1, 2027.  Provides that the study
and report  are confidential pending review by the Director of the Oregon Department of Emergency
Management.
Declares an emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to seismic hazards; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The State Department of Geology and Mineral  Industries shall study
risks related to earthquake-induced dispersion of  hazardous materials. The department may
use any appropriate methodology or methodologies to carry out the study.
(2) The primary goal of the study is to compile data and information that will assist local
emergency management agencies in creating and improving emergency response plans.
(3) In carrying out the study, the department shall seek to:
(a) Increase understanding of the scale and extent of risks related to  earthquake-induced
dispersion of hazardous materials by:
(A) Identifying areas of concern by looking at geographic areas with  the highest seismic
risk;
(B) Identifying the  highest risk facilities within seismic risk zones, using appropriate
criteria such as the Toxic (Operational) Hazard Score  developed by the U.S. Naval Research
Laboratory; and
(C) Reporting on the statewide number of facilities of concern and their geographic dis-
tribution, along with any relevant findings from this inquiry;
(b) By modeling various scenarios, increase understanding of the potential  impact on
immediate areas, workers and surrounding populations  in the event of uncontrolled release
of hazardous material from identified facilities resulting from an  earthquake, including de-
veloping information on the following:
(A) Projected paths of movement of hazardous  material and the severity of its effects,
as may vary according to region, season and other conditions;
(B) Proximity of facilities of concern to populations who would be most at risk from an
uncontrolled release, and estimated total population who would be most at risk;
(C) Where possible using publicly available information, demographic  analysis of the im-
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 4124
HB 3492
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
pacted populations most at risk using an environmental justice analysis; and
(D) Where possible using publicly available information, estimates on probability of  un-
controlled release of  hazardous material based on a facility’s current state of seismic read-
iness, accounting for any major seismic resiliency improvements made to the facility; and
(c) Increase understanding of possible solutions to such hazards by:
(A) Conducting a  review of existing regulatory programs to which relevant facilities are
subject;
(B) Conducting a policy review of seismic requirements and mitigation programs in  other
jurisdictions that address relevant risks and issues; and
(C) Conducting a  literature review of mitigation solutions and obtaining an engineering
review of such solutions.
(4) The department may consult, partner or contract with any appropriate entity in car-
rying out the study. The department and  other involved entities may consult with state
agencies to define the scope of high-risk facilities for purposes of the study.
(5) On or before December 1, 2027,  the department shall submit a report on the findings
of the study to the State Resilience Officer. At  the time the department submits the report
to the State Resilience Officer, the department shall submit a copy of the report to the  Di-
rector of the Oregon Department of Emergency Management to conduct the review described
in section 2 of this 2025 Act.
SECTION 2.
(1) The report prepared under  section 1 of this 2025 Act and all materials
prepared or obtained in connection with the  report are confidential, exempt from disclosure
under ORS 192.311 to 192.478 and may not be distributed to any parties other than the State
Department of Geology and Mineral  Industries, the State Resilience Officer and the Director
of the Oregon  Department of Emergency Management, except as otherwise provided in this
section.
(2) The director shall review the report and designate portions  that may be made publicly
available, including disclosure under ORS 192.311 to 192.478, and portions that may be trans-
mitted to local emergency management agencies under the condition that such  agencies hold
such portions confidential. Portions of the report  may be distributed in accordance with such
designations.
(3) In performing the review and designations, the director  shall consider whether dis-
semination of information in the report may  create security concerns, the utility of infor-
mation in the report to local  emergency management agencies and the public interest in
government transparency.
(4) The State Resilience Officer, after consultation with the  director, may make recom-
mendations based on information in the report to local emergency management agencies
before the director’s review and designations are completed.
SECTION 3.
This 2025 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the  public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is  declared to exist, and this 2025 Act takes effect
on its passage.
[2]