1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 3006
Sponsored by Representative NELSON; Representatives MUNOZ, PHAM H (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act would create ways to increase  diversity in the education workforce in the state.
(Flesch Readability Score: 61.8).
Appropriates moneys from the General Fund to the Department of  Education for various pur-
poses related to increasing the representation of  marginalized populations in the education
workforce in this state.
Directs the Higher Education  Coordinating Commission to award scholarships to administrator
candidates who are from marginalized populations.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to the education workforce.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there  is appropri-
ated to the Department of Education,  for the biennium beginning July 1, 2025, out of the
General Fund, the amount of $_____, for the purpose of funding affordable  pathways and
programs for  individuals who are members of a marginalized population to access the edu-
cation required to obtain a teaching license or administrative license as those terms are de-
fined in ORS 342.120.
SECTION 2.
In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there  is appropri-
ated to the Department of Education,  for the biennium beginning July 1, 2025, out of the
General Fund, the  amount of $_____, for the purpose of providing incentives to schools to
hire and  provide early career support to new educators, especially educators from
marginalized populations.
SECTION 3. (1) In addition to any other form of student financial aid authorized by law,
the Higher Education Coordinating Commission  shall award scholarships to administrator
candidates from marginalized populations to use  at an institution of higher education to
achieve the educational credentials necessary to obtain an administrative  license under ORS
342.125 (3)(f) or (g).
(2) The goal  of this scholarship program is for the percentage of administrators from
marginalized populations employed by a school district or an education service district  to
reflect the percentage of students from marginalized populations in the public  schools of this
state or the percentage of students from marginalized populations in the district.
(3) Scholarships awarded under this section shall be in amounts of $_____ each  academic
year, for a maximum of two academic years.
(4) The commission shall adopt rules necessary for the implementation and adminis-
tration of this section in consultation with the Educator Advancement  Council and the De-
partment of Education.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2979
HB 3006
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
(5) As used in this section:
(a) “Administrator candidate” means an individual who is  preparing to be an adminis-
trator licensed by the Teacher Standards and Practices Commission.
(b) “Administrator candidate” does not mean an individual who is preparing to be  a
teacher.
SECTION 4.
The Department of Education, in consultation with the Teacher Standards
and Practices Commission and  the Educator Advancement Council, shall develop and imple-
ment a plan to:
(1) Expand the sharing of educator workforce data across state agencies using the
statewide data system on the education workforce developed under section 1,  chapter 592,
Oregon Laws 2023.
(2) Modernize systems to monitor and evaluate educator workforce trends in  coordi-
nation with key education and community partners.
[2]