1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2026 Regular Session
House Bill 4151
Sponsored by Representatives EDWARDS, WRIGHT, LEVY B,  BOICE; Representatives BUNCH, HELFRICH,
LEWIS, MANNIX, MCINTIRE, NATHANSON, OSBORNE,  OWENS, RIEKE SMITH, SCHARF, SKARLATOS,
Senators DRAZAN, PROZANSKI, SMITH DB, THATCHER (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act changes the crime of initiating a false report. (Flesch Readability Score: 69.7).
Increases the penalties for the  crime of initiating a false report when the report causes an en-
hanced law  enforcement response that results in physical injury or death. Punishes by a maximum
of five years’ imprisonment, $125,000 fine, or both.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to initiating a false report; amending ORS 162.375.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 162.375 is amended to read:
162.375. (1) A person commits the crime of initiating a false  report if the person knowingly ini-
tiates a false alarm or report that is transmitted  to a fire department, law enforcement agency or
other organization that deals with emergencies involving danger to life or property.
(2)(a) Initiating a false report is a Class A misdemeanor.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this  subsection, initiating a false report is a Class
C felony  if the false report is of such nature that the person initiating the report, with
criminal negligence, causes the deployment of an  enhanced law enforcement response that
results in physical injury to or the death of another person.
(3) The Oregon Criminal Justice Commission shall  classify initiating a false report as
described in subsection (2)(b) of this section as a person felony under the rules of the com-
mission.
[(3)(a)] (4)  The  court shall include in the sentence of any person convicted under this section a
requirement that the person repay the costs incurred in responding to and investigating  the false
report.
[(b) If the response to the  false report involved the deployment of a law enforcement special weap-
ons and tactics (SWAT) team or a  similar law enforcement group, the court shall impose, and may not
suspend, a term of incarceration of: ]
[(A) At least 10 days. ]
[(B) At least 30 days if  the deployment resulted in death or serious physical injury to another
person.]
(5) As used in this section, “enhanced law enforcement response” means a  response by
a law enforcement agency that, based on the information received, involves one or  more of
the following:
(a) The dispatch of two or more officers or units,  including specialized or tactical teams;
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 37
HB 4151
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
(b) The establishment of a  perimeter, the evacuation of bystanders or restriction of
public access;
(c) The use or deployment of specialized equipment, including armored vehicles, breach-
ing tools or aircraft; or
(d) The initiation of emergency procedures such as  a shelter-in-place directive or the
activation of rapid response protocols.
[2]