1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 1054
Sponsored by Senator BONHAM
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act says that county clerks must  provide a live video feed of ballot counting.
(Flesch Readability Score: 73.1).
Requires each county clerk in this state to provide a live video feed to be made available to  the
public through the Internet of rooms in  which ballots are tallied and official ballot drop sites. Re-
quires each county clerk to  cause the live video feed to be recorded and made available to the
public through the Internet for at least two years following the election at which  the live video feed
was provided.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to video feeds of ballot tallying.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) Each county  clerk in this state shall provide a live video feed that may
be accessed by the public  over the Internet at any time of day until the county clerk has
tallied all ballots and completed all duties  related to ballot tallying required under ORS
254.545 of:
(a) Rooms in which ballots are tallied; and
(b) Official ballot drop sites.
(2) The county clerk  shall cause the live video feed under subsection (1) of this section
to be recorded and made accessible by the public  for a period not less than two years fol-
lowing the election for which the live video feed was provided.
(3) The Secretary of State shall  adopt rules that establish the requirements for each lo-
cation and  operation of any video cameras installed and operated under this section. The
rules shall ensure that a video camera is not installed  and operated in a manner that would:
(a) Violate the election security plan adopted under ORS 254.074; or
(b) Identify the manner in which any individual elector cast the elector’s ballot for  or
against any candidate or ballot measure.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 4349