1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2024 Regular Session
Senate Bill 1534
Sponsored by Senator ROBINSON (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Allows districts and schools  to hire people who are not teachers to teach reading.
(Flesch Readability Score: 77.8).
Allows a school district, an education service district  or a public charter school to employ a
person who is not licensed or registered with the Teacher Standards  and Practices Commission to
teach reading to students.
Declares an emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to reading instruction; and declaring an emergency.
Whereas reading is most effectively taught one-on-one and can be easily taught by  a parent or
any other capable individual; and
Whereas Oregon has thousands of homeschool parents who have effectively  taught reading to
their children and also could teach public school students; and
Whereas about one hour of individual instruction each day for approximately  six months can
provide a child with necessary reading skills; and
Whereas once a child starts reading for fun, the child simply  needs to read more in order to
improve reading skills; now, therefore,
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) Notwithstanding ORS 342.173, a school district, an education service dis-
trict or a public charter school  may employ any person who is not licensed or registered with
the Teacher Standards and Practices Commission to teach reading to students.
(2) Employment of a person to teach reading is solely at the discretion of a  district or
school. A district or school may prescribe any requirements for the  employment of a person
to teach reading.
(3) A person employed to teach reading  as provided by this section is not considered a
teacher for purposes of state or federal law.
SECTION 2. This 2024 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the  public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is  declared to exist, and this 2024 Act takes effect
on its passage.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 185