1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2024 Regular Session
House Bill 4054
Sponsored by Representative GOODWIN, Senator SMITH DB; Representatives BOICE, CATE, DIEHL, HELFRICH,
HIEB, LEWIS, OWENS, WRIGHT, YUNKER,  Senators HANSELL, LINTHICUM, THATCHER, WEBER (Pre-
session filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act tells certain entities to designate sports by gender. The  Act forbids males from
playing in female sports. (Flesch Readability Score: 72.35).
Requires each athletic association, conference or organization with  authority over
intercollegiate sports, post-secondary institution of education and  school district to designate ath-
letic competitions and extracurricular sports  according to biological sex. Prohibits biological males
from participating in athletic competitions or extracurricular  sports designated for biological fe-
males.
Provides causes of action for students,  post-secondary institutions of education and school dis-
tricts.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to participation in athletics according to biological sex.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) For purposes of this section:
(a) “Academic entity” means:
(A) A post-secondary institution of education, as that term is defined in ORS  702.200; and
(B) A school district.
(b) “Athletic entity” means:
(A) An athletic association, conference or organization with authority  over
intercollegiate sports;
(B) A post-secondary institution of education, as that term is defined in ORS 702.200;  and
(C) A school district.
(2) Each athletic entity shall require that every athletic competition and extracurricular
sport be expressly designated by the biological sex of the students who participate  in the
competition or sport as follows:
(a) “Males,” “Men” or “Boys”;
(b) “Females,” “Women” or “Girls”; or
(c) “Coed.”
(3) For purposes of subsection (2) of this section, a student’s biological sex is the biolog-
ical sex stated on:
(a) The student’s birth certificate; or
(b) If the student’s birth certificate  is unavailable, any government-issued record that
states the student’s biological sex.
(4) For purposes of subsection  (3) of this section, a statement of the student’s biological
sex on the student’s birth certificate or other government-issued record must have been:
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 124
HB 4054
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
(a) Recorded at or near the time of the student’s birth; and
(b) If modified, modified only to correct a scrivener or clerical error.
(5) If a student’s biological sex is  under dispute, the student shall establish the student’s
biological sex by  presenting a signed statement of a physician that indicates the student’s
biological sex based solely on:
(a) The student’s internal and external reproductive anatomy;
(b) The student’s normal endogenously produced levels of testosterone; and
(c) An analysis of the student’s genetic makeup.
(6) Students of the biologically male sex may not participate in  any athletic competition
or extracurricular sport that is  designated as “Females,” “Women” or “Girls” under sub-
section (2) of this section.
(7) Nothing in subsection (6) of this section restricts or prohibits  any student from par-
ticipating in any athletic competition or extracurricular sport that is  designated as
“Males,” “Men,” “Boys” or “Coed.”
(8) A public body, as  defined in ORS 174.109, any licensing or accrediting organization or
any voluntary organization that administers intercollegiate or interscholastic activities  or
that facilitates  the scheduling and programming of intercollegiate or interscholastic activ-
ities may not entertain a complaint,  open an investigation or take any other adverse action
against an academic entity  for maintaining separate athletic competitions or extracurricular
sports in accordance with subsection (6) of this section.
(9) Any student who is deprived of an  opportunity or suffers a direct or indirect harm
as a result of an academic entity knowingly violating subsection (6) of this section  may bring
a claim against the academic entity for injunctive  relief, damages and any other relief
available under law.
(10) Any student who  is subject to retaliation or any other adverse action by an athletic
entity as a result of reporting a violation of subsection (6)  of this section to an employee of
the athletic entity, or to any public  body with oversight of the athletic entity in this state,
may bring a claim against the athletic entity for injunctive relief, damages and any  other
relief available under law.
(11) Any  academic entity that suffers a direct or indirect harm as a result of a violation
of subsection (8) of this section may bring a  claim against the public body, licensing or ac-
crediting organization or voluntary organization  for injunctive relief, damages and any other
relief available under law.
(12) Any civil action brought under this  section must be initiated not more than two
years after the alleged direct or indirect harm or the retaliation or  other adverse action
occurred. A student, post-secondary institution of education or school district that prevails
on a claim brought under this section is entitled  to monetary damages, including damages
for any psychological, emotional or physical harm suffered,  attorney fees and costs and any
other appropriate relief.
SECTION 2.
This 2024 Act first applies to the 2025-2026 academic year.
[2]