1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
80th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2019 Regular Session
House Bill 2228
Sponsored by Representatives GOMBERG, SMITH DB, Senators ROBLAN, HANSELL; Representatives  EVANS,
KENY-GUYER, Senator MANNING JR (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced.
Establishes Local Government Technical Assistance Program within  Housing and Community
Services Department. Requires program to provide assistance to League of Oregon  Cities and As-
sociation  of  Oregon Counties to develop regional housing and development staff to assist cities and
counties in providing needed housing.
Appropriates funds for program to department.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to housing technical assistance for local governments.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) There is established the Local Government Technical Assistance Program
in the Housing and Community Services Department.
(2) Through the  program, the Housing and Community Services Department, working
with the Land Conservation and  Development Commission, local public housing authorities
and local  governments, shall provide technical and financial assistance to the League of
Oregon Cities and the  Association of Oregon Counties to establish regional housing and
community development staff throughout the state that will provide  technical assistance and
discrete services to cities and counties to provide needed housing, including assistance in:
(a) Working with the Department of Land Conservation  and Development to conduct
housing needs analysis;
(b) Preparing buildable lands analyses for cities and counties;
(c) Conducting financial analysis for community housing incentive programs;
(d) Conducting project feasibility analysis in conjunction with the Housing  and Commu-
nity Services Department;
(e) Preparing comprehensive plan amendments to accommodate needed housing;
(f) Preparing zoning ordinance changes to accommodate needed housing;
(g) Identifying and addressing community infrastructure needs  to accommodate housing;
(h) Identifying and addressing community barriers to needed housing;
(i) Coordinating with social service and public safety system partners  necessary for suc-
cessful housing projects;
(j) Coordinating with employers to leverage resources to accomplish housing projects;
(k) Supporting community leaders in convening and developing action plans  with multiple
stakeholders from the private, public and civic sectors to undertake housing projects;
(L) Coordinating and leveraging efforts with local  community development partners to
plan, finance and build more housing; and
(m) Conducting affordable housing predevelopment activities, including surveying, archi-
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2785
HB 2228
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
tectural and engineering activities, through a public housing authority or a  community de-
velopment corporation.
SECTION 2. In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there  is appropri-
ated to the Housing and  Community Services Department, for the biennium beginning July
1, 2019, out of the General Fund, the amount of $  for the administration and
operations of the Local Government Technical Assistance Program established under  section
1 of this 2019 Act.
[2]