1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Joint Resolution 1
Sponsored by Representative HELFRICH (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The measure says that  if a state agency wants to charge a new fee or increase a fee,
the Legislative Assembly has to agree. The measure requires  3/5 of the members of each chamber
to agree. (Flesch Readability Score: 69.3).
Proposes an amendment to the Oregon Constitution to require approval by  the Legislative As-
sembly of any new fees or  fee increases adopted by a state agency. Requires that bills approving
new or increased fees be approved by a  three-fifths supermajority of each chamber of the Legislative
Assembly.
Refers the proposed amendment to the people for their approval or rejection at the next regular
general election.
JOINT RESOLUTION
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
PARAGRAPH 1.
 The Constitution of the State of Oregon is amended by creating a new  section
16 to be added to  and made a part of Article IX, and by amending section 25, Article IV, such
sections to read:
SECTION 16. (1) New fees or fee  increases adopted by a state agency are not effective
unless authorized by the Legislative Assembly by enabling legislation setting forth the ap-
proved fees, and the enabling legislation is approved by a supermajority  as required under
section 25, Article IV, of this Constitution.
(2) New fees or fee increases authorized by the Legislative Assembly  under subsection (1)
of this section take effect on  the effective date of the enabling legislation or on the date
specified in the rule adopting the new fees or fee increases, whichever is later.
Sec. 25.  (1) Except as otherwise provided in [ subsection (2) ] subsections (2) and (3)  of this
section, a majority of all the members elected to each House shall be necessary  to pass every bill
or Joint resolution.
(2) Three-fifths of all members elected to each House  shall be necessary to pass bills for raising
revenue.
(3) Three-fifths of all members elected to each  House shall be necessary to pass enabling
legislation that approves new fees or fee increases adopted by a state agency, as described
in section 16, Article IX of this Constitution.
[(3)] (4)  All bills, and Joint  resolutions passed, shall be signed by the presiding officers of the
respective houses.
PARAGRAPH 2.
The amendment proposed by this resolution shall be submitted to  the
people for their approval or rejection  at the next regular general election held throughout
this state.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 222