1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Concurrent Resolution 4
Sponsored by Representative MCINTIRE (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Declares a month of awareness for EDS and HSD. (Flesch Readability Score: 75.5).
Designates May 2025 as Ehlers-Danlos Syndromes and  Hypermobility Spectrum Disorders
Awareness Month.
CONCURRENT RESOLUTION
Whereas Ehlers-Danlos syndromes (EDS) are  a group of 13 heritable connective tissue disorders
that together affect 1 in 5,000 people; and
Whereas each type of EDS has its own set of symptoms, but some features are seen across  all
types of EDS, including joint hypermobility, skin hyperextensibility and tissue fragility; and
Whereas hypermobility spectrum disorders (HSD) are connective tissue  disorders that cause
joint hypermobility, instability, injury and pain; and
Whereas other symptoms of  HSD include fatigue, headaches, gastrointestinal problems and
autonomic dysfunction; and
Whereas there is no cure for  any type of EDS or HSD, and the conditions are managed by ad-
dressing a person’s symptoms; and
Whereas EDS and HSD can cause a variety of symptoms in many different areas  of the body,
so people with  these conditions often require multiple providers in different specialties to manage
their care; and
Whereas access to medical professionals who are knowledgeable about EDS and HSD  is limited
in Oregon; and
Whereas a lack of  awareness about EDS and HSD in the United States and across the world
stands in the way of diagnosis, management and research of these conditions; and
Whereas awareness about EDS and HSD  by both medical professionals and the general public
can help improve the lives of people living with EDS and HSD in Oregon; now, therefore,
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
That we, the members of the Eighty-third Legislative Assembly, designate May 2025  as Ehlers-
Danlos Syndromes and Hypermobility Spectrum Disorders Awareness Month; and be it further
Resolved, That a copy of this resolution shall be presented to the Ehlers-Danlos Society.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 910