1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 375
Sponsored by Senator SMITH DB (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act tells an agency to take actions under a certain agreement. The Act tells  the
agency not to take certain actions under the agreement. (Flesch Readability Score: 62.1).
Establishes certain additional requirements concerning  projects under the Good Neighbor Au-
thority Agreement.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to the Good Neighbor Authority Agreement; amending ORS 526.275.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 526.275 is amended to read:
526.275. (1) As used in this section:
(a) “Additive” means an increase in the pace, scale and quality of forest, rangeland and  water
restoration services on federal lands within Oregon, including but not limited to services to  produce
timber harvest  volumes that exceed outputs that would be produced by federal land management
agencies alone.
(b) “Federal land management agencies” means  the United States Forest Service and the Bureau
of Land Management.
(c) “Forest, rangeland and water restoration services” means activities that:
(A) Treat insect-infested or disease-infected trees;
(B) Reduce hazardous fuels; or
(C) Restore or improve forest, rangeland or watershed health, including but not limited  to fish
or wildlife habitat health.
(d) “Good Neighbor Authority Agreement” means the  Good Neighbor Authority Agreement that
the Governor, the State Forester and the  State Fish and Wildlife Director entered into with the
United States Forest Service on March 29, 2016.
(2) It is the  policy of the state to pursue projects under the Good Neighbor Authority Agreement
that increase timber harvest volume,  promote timber production,  contribute to  job creation, re-
duce wildfire risks to all lands,  promote  resilient landscapes, create and  improve wildlife habitat
[and], improve watershed health , promote clean air and  water, support recreation  and stimulate
local economies.
(3) [ To the extent allowed  by the agreement, ] State agencies that are signatories to the  Good
Neighbor Authority Agreement :
(a) Shall work with federal land management agencies , to the extent allowed by  the Good
Neighbor Authority Agreement,  to give priority to projects that:
[(a)] (A)  Consist of additive activities;
[(b)] (B)  Maximize economic benefit to this state; and
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2710
SB 375
1
2
3
4
[(c)] (C) Recover the state agency costs of implementing the projects.
(b) May not participate in  or agree to projects under the Good Neighbor Authority
Agreement that occur on Oregon and California Railroad Revested Lands.
[2]