1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2512
Introduced and  printed pursuant to House Rule 12.00. Presession filed (at the request of House Interim Committee
on Education for Representative Courtney Neron)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act tells the ODE to develop and maintain a  data system for the education
workforce in the state. (Flesch Readability Score: 62.8).
Directs the Department  of Education, in conjunction with various education stakeholders, to
develop, administer and maintain a statewide data system for the education workforce  in this state.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to educator workforce data solutions.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) As used in this section:
(a) “Education workforce” means licensed and classified staff who are:
(A) Employed by a public education provider; or
(B) Under contract to provide services to a public education provider.
(b) “Public education provider” means:
(A) A school district;
(B) A public charter school;
(C) An education service district;
(D) A long term care or treatment facility, as described in ORS 343.961;
(E) The Youth Corrections Education Program;
(F) The Juvenile Detention Education Program; or
(G) The Oregon School for the Deaf.
(2) The Department of Education  shall, in conjunction with the Teacher Standards and
Practices Commission, education service districts, school districts,  approved educator prep-
aration programs and a representative of the statewide  longitudinal data system, develop,
administer and maintain a statewide data system for the education workforce in this state.
(3) The statewide data system must allow the department to assign  unique identifiers to
each individual who is a member of the education workforce.  The identifier may not use any
personally identifiable information, except for alignment purposes in data processing.  Any
personally identifiable information that is collected must be  linked in a secure data location
so that data sets can be matched based on the personally identifiable information when  the
identifier is included.
(4) In addition to subsection (3) of this section, the statewide data system must allow  the
following uses:
(a) Identifying school district hiring needs by content area and geographic location;
(b) Providing information, by content area, about graduates  of educator preparation
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 983
HB 2512
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
programs and persons who complete nontraditional pathways to licensure;
(c) Identifying educator mobility, attrition and retention patterns;
(d) Determining educator longevity and possible factors that affect longevity;
(e) Evaluating school climate and culture from the educator’s perspective based on  the
surveys administered as provided by ORS 342.676;
(f) Evaluating pay in relation to local  economic data from the most recent American
Community Survey from the United States Census Bureau; and
(g) Studying education workforce trends and needs in this state in a manner that:
(A) Includes a review of:
(i) The satisfaction of persons who complete educator  preparation programs in this state;
(ii) Employer satisfaction with the availability and skills of the education  workforce in
this state; and
(iii) Hiring and retention trends of the education workforce in this state; and
(B) Is sortable  by school district, geographic location, school, grade level, teacher char-
acteristics and educator preparation program of this state.
(5) In addition to any requirements described in subsections (3) and  (4) of this section,
the statewide data system must:
(a) Provide complete data integration and  interoperability with other state data systems,
including longitudinal data under ORS 342.443.
(b) Ensure all underlying data is validated, accurate and secure and complies with privacy
laws.
(c) Offer a user-friendly interface with comprehensive educator workforce metrics that
enable users to deliver actionable insights.
(d) Provide advanced  analytics capabilities to support strategic decision-making and
long-term planning for all user groups.
(e) Offer tailored reporting features that respond to the specific  needs of distinct user
groups, including district leaders, policymakers and researchers.
(f) Perform efficiently and be scalable to  accommodate growing data volumes and varying
loads with minimal downtime.
(g) Provide comprehensive training and documentation resources to ensure all  user
groups can efficiently and effectively understand and utilize the system.
(h) Include a robust mechanism for soliciting and  incorporating user feedback to con-
tinuously enhance the system for all user groups.
(6) The department  shall make the information described in subsection (4) of this section
publicly available through a visually appealing  interactive data visualization tool that is ac-
cessible on the department’s website home page.
[2]