1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 3204
Sponsored by Representative NGUYEN H, Senator GELSER BLOUIN; Representatives RUIZ, WRIGHT, Senators
FREDERICK, WEBER (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Makes public data that are  collected each quarter about students going to school.
(Flesch Readability Score: 63.4).
Requires the quarterly collection and compilation of data  about students who are regular
attenders or who are chronically absent.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to student attendance data.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
Section 2 of this 2025 Act is added to and made a part of ORS chapter 329.
SECTION 2. (1) As used in this section:
(a) “Absent” means a missed school day that  is the result of an excused absence, a
nonexcused absence or a disciplinary exclusion.
(b) “Chronically absent” means that  a student is absent for 10 percent or more of the
school days for which the student is enrolled.
(c) “Regular attender” means that a student  is absent for less than 10 percent of the
school days for which the student is enrolled.
(2)(a) The Department of Education shall require each school district and  each public
charter school of this state to submit information to the department about students  who are
regular attenders or who are chronically absent.
(b) The department shall prescribe the timelines for school districts and public charter
schools to provide information  about students who are regular attenders or who are chron-
ically absent. The timelines must allow for:
(A) The collection of quarterly data; and
(B) The department to comply with the  requirements prescribed by subsection (4) of this
section.
(c) The department  shall prescribe the reporting requirements for school districts and
public charter schools to provide information about students  who are regular attenders or
who are chronically absent. The reporting requirements shall provide for:
(A) Disaggregated student group data that aligns,  to the greatest extent practicable, with
the student groups for which data is collected under ORS 327.235; and
(B) The collection of the following data:
(i) The total number of students in average daily  membership for the school district or
public charter school;
(ii) The total number of students in average  daily membership who are regular attenders;
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2347
HB 3204
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
(iii) The percentage of students who are regular attenders;
(iv) The total number of students in average daily membership who are chronically ab-
sent; and
(v) The percentage of students who are chronically absent.
(3) Each school district and public charter school of this  state shall comply with the
timelines and the reporting requirements prescribed by the department under this section.
(4) On a quarterly basis, the department shall:
(a) Compile the data collected as provided by subsection (2) of this section; and
(b) Make available to the public the compiled data on the department’s  website in an
easy-to-use format.
[2]