1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
79th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2017 Regular Session
House Joint Resolution 23
Sponsored by Representatives KENNEMER, NEARMAN; Representatives BARRETO, RESCHKE, SMITH DB
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Proposes amendment to Oregon Constitution to limit total amount of  biennial appropriations by
Legislative Assembly. Allows Legislative Assembly by three-fourths vote to exceed limit if  Legisla-
tive Assembly declares catastrophic disaster has occurred.
Refers proposed amendment  to people for their approval or rejection at next regular general
election.
JOINT RESOLUTION
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
PARAGRAPH 1.  The Constitution of the State of Oregon is amended by creating new sections
16 and 16a to be added to and made a part of Article IX, such sections to read:
SECTION 16. (1) The Legislative Assembly may not appropriate for a biennium a total
amount that exceeds the product of:
(a) The total amount of the  appropriations in the legislatively adopted budget for the
previous biennium;
(b) The ratio of the cost of living for the previous calendar year to the  cost of living for
two years prior to the previous calendar  year, based on changes in the Consumer Price Index
or a similar indicator of inflation, as designated by law; and
(c) The  ratio of the estimated population of this state for the previous calendar year to
the estimated population of this state for two years prior to the previous  calendar year, as
determined in the manner provided by law.
(2) The limit on appropriations established by this section may  be exceeded for a
biennium if the Legislative Assembly declares that a catastrophic disaster  has occurred and
at least three-fourths of the members serving  in each house of the Legislative Assembly
affirmatively vote to exceed the limit  for the biennium. For the biennium subsequent to a
biennium for which  the limit on appropriations was exceeded under this subsection, the
amount that may be appropriated under subsection (1) of this section must be calculated
based on the  amount appropriated for the biennium immediately preceding the biennium for
which the limit on appropriations was exceeded under this subsection.
(3) For purposes of this section, the following are considered to be appropriations:
(a) An authorization that is given by law to expend moneys in a biennium.
(b) A limitation that is imposed by law on the expenditure in a biennium of moneys  that
are continuously appropriated.
(c) Estimated amounts of moneys that are continuously appropriated  to be spent in a
biennium without limitation.
(4) The following types  of appropriations are not subject to the limitation on appropri-
ations specified in subsection (1) of this section:
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 4017
HJR 23
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
(a) Appropriations of moneys that are voluntarily donated  to any unit of state govern-
ment.
(b) Appropriations of moneys from increases in  revenue or new revenue sources if the
increases or sources result from a measure approved by the people at  an election held on
or after November 6, 2018.
(c) Appropriations to fund new programs or to increase  funding for existing programs if
the need for the new or increased funding results from  a measure approved by the people
at an election held on or after November 6, 2018.
(5) As used in this section:
(a) “Catastrophic disaster” means a natural or human-caused event that:
(A) Results in extraordinary levels of death,  injury, property damage or disruption of
daily life in this state; and
(B) Severely affects the  population, infrastructure, environment, economy or government
functions of this state.
(b) “Legislatively adopted budget”  means the budget enacted by the Legislative Assembly
during an odd-numbered year regular session.
SECTION 16a. (1) Section 16 of this  Article first applies to biennia beginning on or after
July 1, 2019.
(2) This section is repealed January 1, 2021.
PARAGRAPH 2.
The amendment proposed by this resolution shall be submitted to  the
people for their approval or rejection  at the next regular general election held throughout
this state.
[2]