1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
79th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2017 Regular Session
House Bill 2548
Sponsored by Representative HACK; Representative WHISNANT (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Establishes Future Business Leaders Program within Department of Education.
Directs State Board of Education to adopt rules to administer program.
Creates Future Business Leaders Program Account within  State Treasury for purpose of funding
program.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to business education programs in high schools.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1)(a) The Future Business  Leaders Program is established within the De-
partment of  Education to assist high school students in preparing for careers as business
owners.
(b) The program shall offer mentoring, training and other resources  to students and ed-
ucators in high schools in this state through partnerships with the  national and local chap-
ters of the Future Business Leaders of America  organization, local business owners and
community volunteers.
(2) The department shall award grants from the Future Business  Leaders Program Ac-
count established in section 2 of this 2017 Act to school districts, education service  districts
and nonprofit organizations for the purposes of:
(a) Providing professional development and entrepreneurial and leadership skills; and
(b) Integrating business-related content into the high-school education curriculum,  in-
cluding:
(A) Business and money management;
(B) Business operations and development; and
(C) Marketing.
(3) The department shall use the national Future Business  Leaders of America organ-
ization as a model to  implement the program and shall use the established standards and
guidelines of the organization to  accomplish the purposes described in subsection (2) of this
section.
(4) The State  Board of Education shall adopt rules for the purpose of administering the
program established by this section.
SECTION 2.
The Future Business Leaders Program Account is established in the State
Treasury, separate and distinct from the  General Fund. The account consists of moneys re-
ceived by the Department of Education  as gifts, grants or donations for the purposes de-
scribed in section 1 of this  2017 Act. Interest earned by the account shall be credited to the
account. Moneys  deposited in the account are continuously appropriated to the Department
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2730
HB 2548
1
2
of Education for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of section 1 of this 2017 Act.
[2]