1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 374
Sponsored by Senator SMITH DB (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act sets limits  on projects under a certain agreement. (Flesch Readability Score:
61.3).
Establishes certain limitation on projects under the Good Neighbor Authority Agreement.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to the Good Neighbor Authority Agreement; amending ORS 526.275.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 526.275 is amended to read:
526.275. (1) As used in this section:
(a) “Additive”  means an increase in the pace, scale and quality of forest, rangeland and water
restoration services on federal lands within Oregon, including but not limited to services to  produce
timber harvest volumes that exceed outputs that would be produced by federal land  management
agencies alone.
(b) “Federal land management agencies” means  the United States Forest Service and the Bureau
of Land Management.
(c) “Forest, rangeland and water restoration services” means activities that:
(A) Treat insect-infested or disease-infected trees;
(B) Reduce hazardous fuels; or
(C) Restore or  improve forest, rangeland or watershed health, including but not limited to fish
or wildlife habitat health.
(d) “Good Neighbor Authority Agreement” means the  Good Neighbor Authority Agreement that
the Governor, the State Forester and the State Fish and  Wildlife Director entered into with the
United States Forest Service on March 29, 2016.
(2) It is the  policy of the state to pursue projects under the Good Neighbor Authority Agreement
that increase timber harvest volume, contribute to job creation, reduce wildfire risks to  all lands,
improve wildlife habitat and watershed health and stimulate local economies.
(3) To the extent  allowed by the Good Neighbor Authority Agreement, state agencies that are
signatories to the Good Neighbor Authority  Agreement :
(a) Shall work with federal land management agencies to give priority to projects that:
[(a)] (A)  Consist of additive activities;
[(b)] (B)  Maximize economic benefit to this state; and
[(c)] (C) Recover the state agency costs of implementing the projects.
(b) May only participate in or agree to projects under the  Good Neighbor Authority
Agreement that commit to awarding payments to Oregon counties that are  calculated based
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2709
SB 374
1
2
on the gross appraised timber value of federal timber sales resulting from the projects.
[2]