1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 3004
Sponsored by Representative NELSON; Representative VALDERRAMA (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act tells YDD to create a violence prevention program  for students and certain
youth groups. (Flesch Readability Score: 68.9).
Directs the Youth Development Division to  establish a statewide community violence prevention
program.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to community violence prevention.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) As used in this section:
(a) “Eligible youth” means a person who is at least 16 years of age  but younger than 21
years of age and who is:
(A) A high school graduate; or
(B) A school dropout.
(b) “School” means a school that is considered high poverty under Title I of the federal
Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965.
(c) “School dropout” has the meaning given that term in ORS 339.505.
(d) “Student” means a student who is enrolled in a school  that serves students in
kindergarten or grades 1 through 12, or any combination of those grade levels.
(2) The Youth Development  Division shall develop and administer a statewide community
violence prevention program for students and eligible youth. Under  the program, a school
district may choose  to participate in the program by delivering classroom instruction as de-
scribed in this section.
(3) The program must provide, at a minimum, the following:
(a) Community violence prevention education and training on topics  that must include,
but need not be limited to:
(A) Crisis intervention;
(B) De-escalation strategies; and
(C) Conflict resolution and mediation.
(b) Classroom instruction for students that focuses on:
(A) Violence and crime prevention;
(B) Connecting students with mentors;
(C) Educating students on gang intervention and prevention; and
(D) Conflict resolution skills.
(c) Support services for eligible youth, including but not limited to:
(A) Career counseling and job training;
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2824
HB 3004
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
(B) Assistance with accessing community behavioral health services; and
(C) Peer counseling and mentorship.
(4) The division:
(a) Shall coordinate with the Department of  Education to create classroom instruction
for students in schools that participate in the program.
(b) May partner with community-based organizations, including community  justice focus
groups:
(A) To administer the program within communities throughout this state; and
(B) To establish direct pathways for providing eligible  youth with access to the support
services provided under the program.
(5) The division, in consultation with the Youth Development Council, shall  establish by
rule a funding process by which community-based  organizations that partner with the divi-
sion under subsection (4) of this section may receive pass-through funding  from moneys ap-
propriated to the department to develop and administer the program.
(6)(a) The department and the council shall establish by rule  criteria for participating
schools to receive funding to deliver the classroom instruction under the program.
(b) The criteria to receive funding must require the school  to provide to the division and
the department information that, at a minimum, describes:
(A) How the classroom instruction will be provided; and
(B) How performance metrics will be collected for purposes of determining  the success
of the classroom instruction provided under the program.
(7) The department  shall provide technical assistance to participating schools that pro-
vide classroom instruction under the program.
[2]