1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2024 Regular Session
House Joint Resolution 202
Sponsored by Representatives  PHAM K, GOMBERG, Senator MANNING JR, Representative CHAICHI, Senators
DEMBROW, GELSER BLOUIN; Senators CAMPOS, FREDERICK, JAMA, MEEK, PATTERSON, PROZANSKI,
WOODS (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Requires a majority of the members of the House and the Senate to  be present to take
action. (Flesch Readability Score: 66.3).
Proposes an amendment  to the Oregon Constitution to require a majority of each house of the
Legislative Assembly to be present to conduct business.
Refers the proposed amendment to the people for their approval or rejection at the next regular
general election.
JOINT RESOLUTION
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon:
PARAGRAPH 1.
 Section 12, Article IV, and section 3, Article X-A of the Constitution  of the
State of Oregon, are amended to read:
Sec. 12.  [ Two thirds ] A majority  of each house shall [ constitute a quorum ] be necessary  to do
business, but a smaller number may meet; adjourn from day to day, and  compel the attendance of
absent members. A [ quorum] majority  being in attendance, if either house fail to effect an organ-
ization within the first five days thereafter, the members of the house so failing shall be  entitled to
no compensation from the  end of the said five days until an organization shall have been
effected.[ -]
Sec. 3.  If the Governor declares that a catastrophic disaster has occurred:
(1) Notwithstanding sections 10 and 10a, Article IV of this Constitution, the  Legislative Assem-
bly may convene in a place  other than the Capitol of the State if the Governor or the Legislative
Assembly determines that the Capitol is inaccessible.
(2) Notwithstanding section 12, Article IV of  this Constitution, during any period of time when
members of the Legislative Assembly are unable to compel the attendance  of [ two-thirds] a majority
of the members of each house because the catastrophic disaster has made  it impossible to locate
members or impossible for them to attend, two-thirds of the  members of each house who are able to
attend shall constitute a quorum to do business.
(3) In a session of the Legislative Assembly that is called because  of the catastrophic disaster
or that was imminent  or ongoing at the time the catastrophic disaster was declared, the number of
members of each house that constitutes a  quorum under subsection (2) of this section may suspend
the rule regarding reading of bills under the same circumstances and in the  same manner that
two-thirds of the members may suspend the rule under section 19, Article IV of this Constitution.
(4) Notwithstanding section 25, Article IV of  this Constitution, during any period of time when
members of the Legislative Assembly are unable to compel the attendance  of [ two-thirds] a majority
of the members of each house because the catastrophic disaster has made  it impossible to locate
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 96
HJR 202
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
members or impossible for them to attend, three-fifths of the members  of each house who are able
to attend a  session described in subsection (3) of this section shall be necessary to pass every bill
or joint resolution.
(5) Notwithstanding section 1a, Article IX of this Constitution, the Legislative Assembly may
declare an emergency in any bill regulating taxation or exemption, including but not  limited to any
bill that  decreases or suspends taxes or postpones the due date of taxes, if the Legislative Assembly
determines that  the enactment of the bill is necessary to provide an adequate response to the cat-
astrophic  disaster.
PARAGRAPH 2.
The amendment proposed by this resolution shall be submitted to  the
people for their approval or rejection  at the next regular general election held throughout
this state.
[2]