1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
82nd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2023 Regular Session
House Bill 2257
Sponsored by Representatives HUDSON, OWENS (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Establishes School Safety Construction  Fund in State Treasury, separate and distinct from
General Fund. Appropriates  moneys in fund continuously to Department of Education for purposes
of making grants to school districts for construction projects that address urgent  school safety
needs. Specifies priorities for grant moneys.
Takes effect on 91st day following adjournment sine die.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to funding for constructing school infrastructure that promotes student safety; and pre-
scribing an effective date.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The School  Safety Construction Fund is established in the State Treas-
ury, separate and distinct from the General Fund.
(2)(a) The School Safety Construction Fund consists of moneys  that the Legislative As-
sembly appropriates each  biennium for the purpose of replenishing the School Safety Con-
struction Fund. To the extent practicable,  the Joint Committee on Ways and Means shall
allocate moneys for the School Safety Construction  Fund from moneys the state retains in
the General Fund under Article IX, section 14 (3), of the Oregon Constitution.
(b) Moneys in the School Safety Construction Fund may be invested as provided  in ORS
293.701 to 293.857. Interest that the fund earns must be credited to the fund.
(3) The Department of Education, on behalf  of the state, may solicit and accept gifts,
grants, donations and other moneys from public  and private sources for the School Safety
Construction Fund. The department shall deposit moneys  the department receives as pro-
vided in this subsection into the School Safety Construction Fund.
(4)(a) Moneys in the  School Safety Construction Fund are continuously appropriated to
the department for the  purpose of making grants to school districts for school infrastructure
construction projects. In making grants under this subsection, the department shall:
(A) Prioritize funding for projects that are urgently needed to protect student and faculty
health, safety and welfare, including but not limited to projects that:
(i) Remove asbestos, radon sources, mold and other hazards from, and  remediate, re-
construct and renovate where needed, school buildings and other facilities;
(ii) Provide retrofitting against seismic events;
(iii) Install, repair, upgrade or replace heating, ventilation and air conditioning equipment
and facilities;
(iv) Remove sources of lead and other contaminants from drinking water and otherwise
improve the safety of drinking water sources; and
(v) Repair school building roofs, walls, interiors and foundations; and
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 685
HB 2257
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
(B) Prioritize, among projects the department identifies in subparagraph (A)  of this par-
agraph, projects for which the school district has unsuccessfully sought  alternative sources
of funding.
(b) The department shall retain in the  School Safety Construction Fund not less than five
percent of  the balance of the School Safety Construction Fund during each biennium as a
reserve for cash flow and revenue shortfall purposes.
(5) The  department by rule shall establish forms, procedures and evaluation criteria for
granting moneys to school districts from the School Safety Construction Fund. The  depart-
ment shall cooperate with the Secretary of State to periodically audit the  recipients of the
grant moneys to ensure that the  recipients use the grant moneys for the purposes described
in this section.
SECTION 2.
This 2023 Act takes effect on the 91st day after the date on  which the 2023
regular session of the Eighty-second Legislative Assembly adjourns sine die.
[2]