1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
81st OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2021 Regular Session
House Bill 2257
Sponsored by Representative OWENS (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Appropriates moneys to Water  Resources Department for purposes of facilitating enrollment of
lands in Harney Basin  in federal Conservation Reserve Program, funding hydrologist position and
measuring ground water levels in Harney Basin.
Declares emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to voluntary reduction of ground water use; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
There is appropriated to the Water Resources Department,  for the biennium
beginning July 1, 2021, out of the General Fund, the amount of $500,000 for the purposes of:
(1) Facilitating enrollment of lands in the Harney Basin in  the voluntary, primarily
federally funded Conservation Reserve Program;
(2) Funding a position for a hydrologist who will:
(a) Support implementation of  contracts entered into under the Conservation Reserve
Program, including by assessing the water rights of individuals interested  in participating in
the program, to ensure eligibility;
(b) Assist with implementation of other projects intended to reduce ground water  use in
the Harney Basin;
(c) To assess the effectiveness  of participation in the Conservation Reserve Program and
of other strategies for reducing ground water use, monitor and estimate ground  water use
in the Harney Basin and collect data on ground water levels in the Harney Basin; and
(d) Support actions taken by the watermaster of District  10 that promote compliance
with voluntary and mandated ground water use reduction programs; and
(3) Measuring ground  water levels in the Harney Basin to assess whether ground water
management programs are reducing the decline of ground water levels in the basin.
SECTION 2.
This 2021 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the  public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is  declared to exist, and this 2021 Act takes effect
on its passage.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 1391