1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2026 Regular Session
House Bill 4025
Introduced and  printed pursuant to House Rule 12.00. Presession filed (at the request of House Interim Committee
on Commerce and Consumer Protection for Representative Nathan Sosa)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Allows a public utility other than a power or gas company  to raise rates year-round.
Takes effect 91 days after sine die. (Flesch Readability Score: 61.0).
Allows an increase in the residential rates of a public  utility to take effect from November 1 to
March 31 for public utilities other than public utilities  that provide electricity or natural gas ser-
vices.
Takes effect on the 91st day following adjournment sine die.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to the residential rates of public utilities; amending ORS 757.210; and prescribing an  ef-
fective date.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
 ORS 757.210 is amended to read:
757.210. (1)(a) Whenever any public utility files  with the Public Utility Commission any rate or
schedule of rates stating or establishing a new  rate or schedule of rates or increasing an existing
rate or schedule of rates, the commission may, either upon  written complaint or upon the
commission’s  own  initiative, after reasonable notice, conduct a hearing to determine whether the
rate or schedule is fair, just and reasonable. The commission shall conduct  the hearing upon written
complaint filed by the utility, its customer or customers, or any other proper party within 60 days
of the utility’s filing; provided that no hearing need be  held if the particular rate change is the re-
sult of an automatic adjustment clause. At the hearing the utility shall bear the  burden of showing
that the rate or schedule of rates proposed to be established or increased or changed  is fair, just
and reasonable. The commission may not authorize a rate or schedule of rates  that is not fair, just
and reasonable.
(b) As used  in this subsection, “automatic adjustment clause” means a provision of a rate
schedule that provides for rate increases or decreases  or both, without prior hearing, reflecting in-
creases or decreases or both in costs  incurred, taxes paid to units of government or revenues earned
by a utility and that is subject to review by the commission at least once every two years.
(2)(a) Subsection (1) of this  section does not apply to rate changes under an approved alternative
form of regulation plan, including a resource rate plan under ORS 757.212.
(b) Any alternative form of regulation plan shall include provisions to  ensure that the plan op-
erates in the interests of utility customers and the public generally  and results in rates that are just
and reasonable and may include provisions establishing a reasonable range for rate of  return on
investment. In approving a plan, the commission shall, at a minimum, consider whether the plan:
(A) Promotes increased efficiencies and cost control;
(B) Is consistent with least-cost resources acquisition policies;
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 142
HB 4025
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
(C) Yields  rates that are consistent with those that would be obtained following application of
ORS 757.269;
(D) Is consistent with maintenance of safe, adequate and reliable service; and
(E) Is beneficial to utility customers generally, for example, by minimizing utility rates.
(c) As used in this subsection, “alternative  form of regulation plan” means a plan adopted by the
commission upon petition by a public utility, after notice and an opportunity for a hearing, that  sets
rates and revenues and a method for changes in  rates and revenues using alternatives to cost-of-
service rate regulation.
(d) Prior to implementing  a rate change under an alternative form of regulation plan, the utility
shall present a report that demonstrates the calculation of any proposed rate  change at a public
meeting of the commission.
(3) Except as provided in ORS 757.212, the commission, at any time, may order a utility to ap-
pear and establish that any, or  all, of its rates in a plan authorized under subsection (2) of this
section are in conformity with the plan and are just and reasonable. Except as provided in  ORS
757.212, such rates, and the alternative form of regulation plan  under which the rates are set, also
shall be subject to complaint under ORS 756.500.
(4) Periodically,  but not less often than every two years after the implementation of a plan re-
ferred to in subsection (2) of this section, the commission shall submit a report  to the Legislative
Assembly that shows the impact of the plan on rates paid by utility customers.
(5) The commission and staff may consult at any time with,  and provide technical assistance to,
utilities, their customers, and other interested parties  on matters relevant to utility rates and
charges. If a hearing is held with  respect to a rate change, the commission’s decisions shall be based
on the record made at the hearing.
(6) The commission may adjust rates to  mitigate an increase in residential customer rates if the
increase is of such magnitude that, if applied at the higher rate or all at one time, the increase
would affect the ability of residential customers to maintain  adequate utility service. In considering
whether to adjust rates under this subsection, the commission:
(a) Must determine whether the proposed adjusted rates are fair, just and reasonable;
(b) May not  adjust rates in a manner that results in rates that are not fair, just and reasonable;
and
(c) Shall  consider and may approve deferred accounting for future cost recovery from customers
for those amounts that are subject to rate mitigation.
(7) Any increase in the residential  rates of a public utility that provides electricity or na-
tural gas services  may not take effect from November 1 to March 31.
SECTION 2.
This 2026 Act takes effect on the 91st day after the date on  which the 2026
regular session of the Eighty-third Legislative Assembly adjourns sine die.
[2]