1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
House Bill 2169
Introduced and  printed pursuant to House Rule 12.00. Presession filed (at the request of House Interim Committee
on Agriculture, Land Use, Natural Resources, and Water for Representatives Ken Helm, Mark Owens)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: This Act  sets a state policy on water reuse and tells DEQ and OWRD to make a water
reuse team. (Flesch Readability Score: 85.0).
Establishes state policy on water reuse. Directs the Department of Environmental  Quality and
the Water Resources Department to establish an interagency water reuse development team.
Takes effect on the 91st day following adjournment sine die.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to water reuse; and prescribing an effective date.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) The Legislative  Assembly finds and declares that it is the policy of this
state to encourage water reuse and to expand opportunities for water reuse in this state.
(2) The Legislative Assembly finds and declares that it  is the policy of this state that
agencies of state government, as defined in ORS 174.111, work  together to encourage and
expand opportunities for water reuse by overcoming institutional and regulatory barriers and
funding constraints and improving policies and internal operations related to water reuse.
SECTION 2. (1) The Department of Environmental Quality and the Water Resources
Department shall  jointly establish an interagency water reuse development team. Other
agencies of state government, as defined in ORS 174.111, shall participate  in the water reuse
development team as requested by the Department of Environmental Quality and the  Water
Resources Department.
(2) The water reuse development team shall:
(a) Provide training and education to state agency staff on the benefits and drivers of
water reuse projects and  the state policy to encourage and expand opportunities for water
reuse;
(b) Identify, with respect to the  development of water reuse projects, internal barriers
within agencies, information needs  within agencies and conflicts between agencies that must
be resolved to expand water reuse in this state;
(c) Identify internal agency  or regulatory changes needed to overcome barriers to water
reuse;
(d) Work to resolve conflicts between agencies;
(e) Ensure that information and agency contacts  regarding water reuse are current and
accessible; and
(f) Ensure that, for each agency participating in the  team, responses to requests for in-
formation from the public or other  government agencies regarding water reuse are consist-
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 3333
HB 2169
1
2
3
4
ent and timely.
SECTION 3.
This 2025 Act takes effect on the 91st day after the date on  which the 2025
regular session of the Eighty-third Legislative Assembly adjourns sine die.
[2]