1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2026 Regular Session
House Bill 4150
Sponsored by Representatives WISE, ANDERSEN, FRAGALA, CHAICHI; Representatives EVANS, GAMBA,
GOMBERG, MCDONALD, MUNOZ, NELSON, NGUYEN D, Senators  BROADMAN, CAMPOS, FREDERICK,
GELSER BLOUIN, JAMA, NERON MISSLIN, PHAM K, PROZANSKI (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: The Act says that persons who contract with the state or get  grants from the state must
promise not to help transport people for deportation. (Flesch Readability Score: 69.7).
Directs state agencies to require prospective  contractors, subcontractors and grant recipients
to attest that they do not and will not transport individuals detained  by federal agencies for the
purpose of deportation, except in accordance with judicial orders. Provides  that if the attestations
are false or become false, contractors  are disqualified from contracting with the state agency for a
specified period, and grant recipients must repay the grant moneys to the state.
Declares an emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to recipients of public funds; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1) A state  agency shall require every prospective contractor to submit the
attestation described in subsection (2) of this section as part of the prospective  contractor’s
bid or proposal. A state agency may not award  a contract to a prospective contractor that
fails to submit the attestation, or if the state  agency determines that the information sub-
mitted on the attestation is false.
(2) An attestation under  this section must be in substantially the following form: “Con-
tractor is not now, and will not be for the duration of any  contract with the State of Oregon,
under an agreement with  any federal agency to provide transportation services for individ-
uals detained by the federal agency for the purpose of deportation from the United States,
except in accordance with an order of a federal court, not including administrative courts.”
(3) If a state agency ultimately awards a contract to a  prospective contractor, the con-
tract must include:
(a) A provision making the contract voidable, at the option of the state agency, if  the
state agency determines that  the information in the prospective contractor’s attestation is
false or subsequently becomes false;
(b) A provision requiring the prospective contractor to include  in any transportation
subcontracts a provision requiring an attestation from the subcontractor substantially sim-
ilar to that described in subsection (2) of this section; and
(c) A provision making the contract  with the prospective contractor voidable, at the op-
tion of the state agency, if the state agency determines that  the information in a
subcontractor’s attestation is false or subsequently becomes false.
(4) If a state agency determines that the information  in the attestation of a prospective
contractor, a contractor or a subcontractor engaged by a contractor is false or subsequently
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 134
HB 4150
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
becomes false, the  state agency shall disqualify the contractor or potential contractor from
contracting with the state agency for a period of three years  from the time of the determi-
nation.
(5) As used in this section:
(a) “Contractor” means a person to whom a state agency has awarded a contract.
(b) “Prospective contractor” means any person who submits a bid or proposal for a  con-
tract with a state agency.
(c) “State agency” means every state  officer, board, commission, department, institution,
branch or agency of the  state government whose costs are paid wholly or in part from funds
held in the State Treasury.
(d) “Transportation subcontract” means a subcontract for services involving the  trans-
portation of humans.
SECTION 2.
(1) A state agency that awards a grant to a recipient  shall require the re-
cipient to execute an agreement as described in subsection (2)  of this section as a condition
of receiving grant moneys.
(2) An agreement under this section must:
(a) Require the recipient to attest, before receiving grant moneys, that the  recipient is
not and will not be under an agreement with  any federal agency to provide transportation
services for individuals  detained by the federal agency for the purpose of deportation from
the United States,  except in accordance with an order of a federal court, not including ad-
ministrative courts; and
(b) Require the recipient to repay the grant moneys to the state agency if the  state
agency determines that the attestation is false or subsequently becomes false.
(3) As used in this section:
(a) “Grant”  means an award of moneys by a state agency to a person or entity other than
a public body, as defined in ORS 174.109,  that is made under terms that do not require the
repayment of the moneys unless the recipient breaches specified obligations.
(b) “State agency” has the meaning given that term in section 1 of this 2026 Act.
SECTION 3.
This 2026 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist,  and this 2026 Act takes effect
on its passage.
[2]