1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
81st OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2021 Regular Session
House Bill 2153
Sponsored by Representative OWENS (at the request of Vern Brown, Jr.) (Presession filed.)
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced.
Directs Director of Veterans’ Affairs to establish Oregon Veterans’ Community, to include resi-
dential units and medical and social services for veterans and family  members. Directs director to
contract with nongovernmental entity for construction, operation and management  of veterans’
community.
Authorizes incorporated cities to acquire real property for sale  or donation to Department of
Veterans’ Affairs for purposes of veterans’ community and to incur debt for such acquisitions.
Allocates lottery moneys for purposes of veterans’ community.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to veterans’ communities.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
It is the policy of the State of Oregon to provide  communities in which
veterans may reside  with convenient access to medical and social services for which veterans
may have particular need.
SECTION 2. As used in sections 1 to 5 of this 2021 Act:
(1) “Eligible resident” means:
(a) A veteran; or
(b) An immediate family member of a veteran, including  a surviving immediate family
member.
(2) “Oregon Veterans’  Community” means the community established under section 3 of
this 2021 Act.
(3) “Veteran” has the meaning given that term in ORS 408.225.
SECTION 3.
(1) The Director of  Veterans’ Affairs shall establish the Oregon Veterans’
Community, which shall comprise residential units  to house eligible residents and medical
and social services for the benefit of eligible residents.
(2) The director shall enter into  a contract with a nongovernmental entity for the con-
struction, operation and management  of the community. The contract executed under this
section is subject to the requirements of ORS chapters  279A and 279B and must provide that:
(a) The contractor is responsible for  hiring and maintaining the necessary staff for the
community;
(b) The director will assign one or more state employees, in the discretion of the director,
to provide oversight of the management of the facility; and
(c) Residence and access to services in the community be limited to eligible residents.
SECTION 4.
(1) The Oregon Veterans’ Community Account  is established in the State
Treasury, separate and distinct from the General Fund. Interest earned by  the account must
be credited to the account.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 786
HB 2153
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
(2) The account consists of:
(a) Moneys received by the Director of Veterans’ Affairs that relate to the development,
operation or maintenance of the Oregon Veterans’ Community, including but not limited to
fees and charges charged to residents;
(b) Moneys appropriated, allocated, deposited or transferred to the fund  by the Legisla-
tive Assembly or otherwise; and
(c) Interest earned on moneys in the fund.
(3) The moneys  in the fund are continuously appropriated to the Department of Veterans’
Affairs to pay expenses that the  director determines are appropriate for developing, operat-
ing and maintaining the Oregon Veterans’ Community including, but not limited to, providing
care and services to residents and the costs of administration incurred by the director.
SECTION 5.
(1) When such power is conferred or contained in their charters or acts of
incorporation, incorporated cities may purchase, receive, take and  acquire by eminent do-
main, or otherwise, and within or without corporate limits,  land and necessary or convenient
means of access thereto by roads, ways, streets, railroad spurs,  bridges, or the like, and sell
or donate the same to the Department of Veterans’ Affairs for purposes of the  Oregon
Veterans’ Community. Such acquisition and  donation shall be deemed for the general use and
benefit of the inhabitants of any city exercising the  powers granted by this section and for
the general use and benefit of the veterans of the State of Oregon. For the purpose of exer-
cising the  power of eminent domain under this section or under the provision in any mu-
nicipal charter based upon this section, such taking or acquisition shall be deemed to  be for
a public and municipal use.
(2) In connection with the exercise of the powers granted by this section, such  incorpo-
rated cities may incur such indebtedness and issue such bonds, warrants or other  evidences
of debt as their respective charters may authorize.
SECTION 6.
For the purpose of exercising the powers conferred by section 5 of  this 2021
Act, any incorporated city may bring and maintain  any suit or action for the appropriation,
condemnation or taking of real property within or without its  corporate limits, in fee simple
or otherwise, including riparian rights, rights of way and other  easements. The city may
proceed to have such property appropriated and the  compensation therefor determined and
paid, in the manner provided by law for exercising  of the power of eminent domain by mu-
nicipal corporations.
SECTION 7. There is allocated for the biennium beginning July 1, 2021, from the Admin-
istrative Services Economic Development Fund, to the Department of Veterans’ Affairs, the
amount of $___ for deposit in the Oregon Veterans’ Community  Account established under
section 4 of this 2021 Act.
[2]