1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
83rd OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2025 Regular Session
Senate Bill 1088
Sponsored by Senator WOODS
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by  the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features of the
measure as introduced. The statement includes a measure digest written in compliance with applicable readability
standards.
Digest: Tells state agencies to buy normal business software by means of  an online portal. Al-
lows the agencies  to buy the software through their usual buying processes. Takes effect 91 days
after the session ends. (Flesch Readability Score: 60.9).
Requires contracting agencies  to purchase common off-the-shelf software or other information
technology products or services that  do not require customization through an information technol-
ogy marketplace portal. Authorizes the State Chief Information Officer to select and preapprove  an
information technology marketplace portal for use. Specifies  features that the information technol-
ogy marketplace portal must have. Exempts purchases through the information  technology market-
place portal from the application of certain provisions of the Public Contracting Code.
Takes effect on the 91st day following adjournment sine die.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to information technology; and prescribing an effective date.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
Section 2 of this 2025 Act is added to and made a  part of ORS chapter 279B.
SECTION 2. (1) As used in this section:
(a) “Common off-the-shelf software” means a  predeveloped software product or service
that is commercially available for  a broad user base, has a standardized set of features and
does not otherwise require  extensive customization for use on most common information
technology platforms or in most common information technology environments.
(b) “Information technology marketplace portal” means a  structured and curated digital
catalog from which a contracting agency can identify, select,  purchase and obtain or receive
delivery of common off-the-shelf software and other standardized  information technology
products and services at predetermined prices and discounts.
(2) A contracting agency shall purchase  common off-the-shelf software, or other infor-
mation technology products or services that do not require extensive customization to meet
the contracting agency’s specifications, from an  information technology marketplace portal
if:
(a) The State Chief Information Officer has preapproved  the information technology
marketplace portal for use under subsection (3) of this section;
(b) The contracting agency’s  specifications for the information technology do not require
extensive customization;
(c) The price, applicable discounts, time of delivery or other terms and conditions  related
to the purchase are more  favorable to the contracting agency than other purchase methods
would be; and
(d) The total  value of the purchase does not exceed a cap that the State Chief Informa-
tion Officer specifies by rule.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 4069
SB 1088
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
(3) The State  Chief Information Officer shall select by means of a competitive process,
and preapprove for use by  contracting agencies, one or more information technology mar-
ketplace portals that the State Chief Information  Officer determines will provide the best
value to the state. An information technology marketplace portal that the State Chief In-
formation Officer selects and preapproves must, at a minimum, offer:
(a) Software, data and services that  contracting agencies require for common business
tasks;
(b) Products and services from  both the person that provides and maintains the infor-
mation technology marketplace portal and, on an equal  basis and without favor or discrimi-
nation, from third parties, including third parties that are headquartered in, have a  principal
place of business in or are otherwise based in this state;
(c) Competitive pricing and a sufficiently large and wide range of products  or services
necessary to meet the needs of contracting agencies in this  state, including software, soft-
ware as a service, professional services, large datasets, machine learning algorithms and
images;
(d) Extensive capability for searching and filtering by price, features, vendor  or product
name, platform, feature set, compliance standard and other appropriate selection criteria;
(e) Transactional capability for  immediate purchases that allows for accepting purchase
orders, negotiated contracts and a variety of payment instruments;
(f) A high level of security and  confidentiality and an ability to view and verify the use
of security protocols that apply to searches and purchases; and
(g) Any other features the State Chief Information Officer specifies by rule.
(4) A contracting agency’s purchase by means of an information  technology marketplace
portal under subsection (2) of this  section is not subject to the provisions of ORS 279B.055,
279B.060, 279B.070 or 279B.075.
SECTION 3.
The State Chief Information Officer shall conclude  the competitive process
described in section 2 (3) of this 2025 Act not later than December 31,  2026, and shall approve
an information technology marketplace portal for contracting agencies to  use not later than
January 1, 2027.
SECTION 4. This 2025 Act takes effect on the 91st day after the date on  which the 2025
regular session of the Eighty-third Legislative Assembly adjourns sine die.
[2]