1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
80th OREGON LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY--2019 Regular Session
Senate Bill 727
Sponsored by Senator  ROBLAN, Representatives STARK, MARSH; Senators BENTZ, DEMBROW, FREDERICK,
HANSELL, HEARD, KNOPP, THATCHER, THOMSEN,  Representatives BOSHART DAVIS, CLEM, DRAZAN,
FINDLEY, HELT, HERNANDEZ, KENY-GUYER, LIVELY, MCKEOWN, MCLAIN,  MEEK, MITCHELL,
NOSSE, POST, SANCHEZ, SCHOUTEN, SMITH DB, SMITH G, WALLAN, WILLIAMS
SUMMARY
The following summary  is not prepared by the sponsors of the measure and is not a part of the body thereof subject
to consideration by the Legislative Assembly. It is an editor’s brief statement of the essential features  of the
measure as introduced.
Requires Department of Human Services to adopt by rule  program that provides financial as-
sistance to recipients of supplemental nutrition assistance for purchasing locally grown fruits and
vegetables from participating farmers’ markets,  farm share sites and retail outlets. Requires program
match amounts that recipient spends on certain eligible foods.
Appropriates moneys from General Fund to department to implement program.
Declares emergency, effective on passage.
A BILL FOR AN ACT
Relating to program providing financial assistance to recipients who receive supplemental  nutrition
assistance; and declaring an emergency.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
SECTION 1.
(1)(a) The Department of Human Services shall adopt by rule a program  to
provide funds to assist recipients who are eligible to receive supplemental  nutrition assist-
ance provided by the Supplemental  Nutrition Assistance Program under ORS 411.806 to
411.845 in purchasing locally grown fruits and vegetables  from farmers’ markets, farm share
sites and retail food outlets that participate in the program adopted under this section.
(b) The program shall match the amounts that a recipient spends on foods that are  eli-
gible for supplemental nutrition assistance.
(2) The department shall review the outcomes of the program  adopted under this section,
including the program’s impact on the purchase of locally grown  fruits and vegetables by
recipients provided assistance under the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program. The
department shall prepare and make available to the public a report  describing the
department’s findings, no later than December 31, 2020.
SECTION 2.
In addition to and not in lieu of any other appropriation, there is appropri-
ated to the Department of Human Services,  for the biennium beginning July 1, 2019, out of
the General Fund, the amount of $3,000,000, which shall be expended for the purposes of im-
plementing section 1 of this 2019 Act.
SECTION 3.
This 2019 Act being necessary for the immediate preservation of the  public
peace, health and safety, an emergency is  declared to exist, and this 2019 Act takes effect
on its passage.
NOTE: Matter in  boldfaced type in an amended section is new;  matter [ italic and bracketed] is existing law to be omitted.
New sections are in  boldfaced type.
LC 2920